<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentleman from New Jersey for his leadership and the ranking member, the chairperson of the full committee, Mr. Berman, and pay tribute to our good friends the late Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde, who have captured, in essence, what our war against HIV/AIDS is all about. It has to be comprehensive and expansive. It has to recognize the overlapping impact of tuberculosis and malaria. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think one of the most telling scenes that I was able to experience, sadly so, was walking into a little hut in Zambia and seeing an emaciated body or person, if you will, being taken care of by a 4 year old. That individual had HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. 
   So this legislation is crucial in the overall comprehensive war against the devastating diseases when there is no water, no nutrition, and poverty. This targets 12 million new HIV infections. It is treating millions of people. It's supporting care for 12 million. It has a focus on women and girls. It provides a focus on the anti-retroviral treatment that is so important that goes after opportunistic infections. It provides a certain amount of money, $9 billion, for malaria and tuberculosis over 5 years. It goes to the very essence of a 4 year old being the only remaining healthy person in his family having to care for sick relatives suffering from HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis and many suffering from malaria. 
   This is an important step forward. And, yes, we have many responsibilities in this Congress. I join my friend from Iowa. We will be working hard to provide the support systems that those individuals need. But at the same time, this is a tribute to great leaders like our former and late chairpersons of this committee, Chairman Hyde and Chairman Lantos, who recognized that to those who are given much, much is expected. 
   This bill responds to the devastation and need around the world. I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for allowing me to speak on not only an important issue in this country but around the world. I can only note that it gives me great pause that my colleague, Congressman Tom Lantos, did not live to see the fruit of his hard work on this bill. However, I know his family and his colleague Congressman Henry Hyde have kept this legislation alive and moving through this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, thank you for allowing for H.R. 5501, the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008 on PEPFAR to come to the floor today. 
   JACKSON-LEE AMENDMENT 
   I would also like to thank both Chairman Berman and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on African and Global Health, Congressman Payne, for working with me to include important language in this legislation. My language, in Section 301 of this bill, addresses the necessity of making children a priority among individuals with HIV for proper food and nutritional support. Section 301, with my language included, states that it is the sense of Congress that ``for the purposes of determining which individuals infected with HIV should be provided with nutrition and food support--(i) children with moderate or severe malnutrition, according to WHO standards, shall be given priority for such nutrition and food support; and (ii) adults with a body mass index, BMI, of 18.5 or less, or at the prevailing WHO-approved measurement for BMI, should be considered `malnourished' and should be given priority for such nutrition and food support;'' 
   Mr. Speaker, as Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I believe that this language is crucial, and I thank the Chairman for including it in the text of the bill. HIV-infected children have been underrepresented among beneficiaries of PEPFAR-supported programs. As this legislation cites in the findings section, ``of those infected with HIV, 2.5 million are children under 15 who also account for 460,000 of the newly-infected individuals.'' And even these large numbers are deceiving, as children die much quicker from AIDS than do adults. I am pleased to see this language, which focuses attention on the plight of these children, and makes serving their needs a priority. 
   PEPFAR 
   In January 2003, President Bush announced the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR. As its name implies, PEPFAR was envisioned as an emergency response; we are here today to discuss how to transition to a sustainable program to address these global epidemics. 
   HIV/AIDS continues to represent a serious and large-scale challenge throughout much of the world. It goes far beyond a simple 
   health problem, and it hinders attempts to foster economic development and political stability. As we begin the process of reauthorizing PEPFAR, I believe it is crucial that we emphasize the long-term sustainability of our HIV efforts, and that we integrate AIDS prevention and treatment within our larger-scale development initiatives. 
   Though we have drugs that are effective in managing infections and reducing mortality by slowing the progression to AIDS in an individual, they do little to reduce disease prevalence and prevent new infections. For this reason, there is growing consensus among health experts that we must put greater emphasis on prevention programs, which are perhaps the most critical aspect of any initiative to combat global HIV/AIDS. Even as increasing numbers of people have access to anti-retroviral drugs, ARVs, an estimated 5.1 million people who needed treatment did not receive it in 2006. 
   TUBERCULOSIS 
   The World Health Organization, WHO, estimates that throughout the world someone contracts TB every second and that one third of all people in the world are currently infected with TB. Tuberculosis spreads easily from one person to another: when the infected person coughs, the bacilli or TB germs are spread into the air and another person need only to inhale a small number of the bacilli to be infected. The World Health Organization, WHO, estimates that each person left untreated with active TB will infect, on average, between 10 and 15 people every year. Although the TB bacilli can lie dormant in the body for years and its effects may not be immediately felt, if one has a weakened immune system, such as through HIV/AIDS, the chances of becoming sick will increase. 
   In 2005, nearly 9 million people contracted tuberculosis, of which 84 percent occurred in high burden countries, with all but two of the high burden countries in Africa and Asia. This demonstrates the necessity for special attention to these high burden countries, particularly in Africa. Among the 15 countries with the highest estimated TB incidence rates, 12 were in Africa, due in part to relatively high rates of HIV co-infection. About 80 percent of all cases in the world were found in 22 countries, all but 4 were found in Africa or Asia. 
   Some 2.97 million people in Southeast Asia were newly infected with TB and about 2.57 million in sub-Saharan Africa. In 2004, sub-Saharan Africa was the only region in the world where TB prevalence was growing; elsewhere the number of cases was stable or falling. Despite our concerted efforts, we continue to face a serious and persistent health threat. I believe that it is imperative that we ensure that American taxpayer dollars are used to greatest effect, not to bolster ideology. 
   Current restrictions on PEPFAR mandating that 1/3 of all prevention funds must be used on abstinence-only education neglect the real needs of populations both in America and abroad. These stipulations hurt the ability of PEPFAR to adapt its activities in accordance with local HIV transmission patterns, and they impair efforts to coordinate with national health plans. Though AIDS is clearly a global problem, it does not affect every nation equally or in the same manner. Removing these stipulations would allow PEPFAR to better address  the requirements of each country, making more efficient and 
   effective use of taxpayer dollars in serving the millions affected by this disease. 
   In addition, I believe it is crucial that we dedicate greater attention to strengthening local health infrastructure. Health experts have expressed concern that the high amount of spending directed toward HIV/AIDS initiatives has drawn health workers away from public health facilities and other important programs. This merely compounds a chronic shortage of qualified health workers, which, according to WHO's 2006 World Health Report, is the single most important health issue facing countries today. This need is felt particularly sharply in Southeast Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. 
   Many health experts also continue to advocate greater integration between PEPFAR and other health programs, including those focused on nutrition, maternal and child heath, and other infectious diseases. These experts note that HIV is intricately linked to these other areas of concern; for example, malnutrition and lack of food may heighten exposure to HIV, raise the likelihood of engaging in risky behavior, increase susceptibility to infection, and complicate efforts to provide anti-retroviral, ARV, medication. Further, an HIV epidemic will likely worsen food insecurity, by depleting the agricultural workforce. I believe it is necessary, to ensure maximum effectiveness, that we integrate PEPFAR with other aspects of our international health outreach and development programs. 
   Mr. Speaker, if we are to turn the tide of turmoil and tragedy that HIV/AIDS causes to millions around the world, and hundreds of thousands right here in our backyard, it is imperative that we continue to fund and expand medical research and education and outreach programs. 
   HIV/AIDS 
   I want to share briefly the importance of continued action in awareness for this virulent disease and the nexus between TB and HIV/AIDS, another issue which I am passionate about and would like to see eradicated as I am sure many of my colleagues would. According to the World Health Organization, there were 33.2 million people living with HIV/AIDS worldwide in 2007. 
   People living with HIV/AIDS are at a greater risk of becoming infected with TB because of their weakened immunity. In 2004, out of the more than 740,000 people who contracted TB and were co-infected with HIV/AIDS, 600,000 of those co-infected were found in sub-Saharan Africa. 
   Similar to TB, HIV/AIDS has risen to epidemic levels particularly for our African countrymen. According to UNAIDS, in 2005, there were 3.2 million newly infected Africans and 2.4 million Africans who died of HIV/AIDS related complications. The current life expectancy for a person living with AIDS in Africa is 47 years old. 
   Such high rates of infection can be prevented. The transmission of HIV can be reduced through proper education and resources. Additionally, proper resources can help the treatment of HIV. We must make these resources more accessible to those who need it most. 
   MALARIA 
   Malaria is another disease that must be addressed. According to the World Health Organization, more than 500 million people become severely ill with malaria and more than one million people die of malaria every year, mostly infants, young children and pregnant women. Perhaps most shocking is WHO's estimate that a child dies of malaria every 30 seconds. More than 90 percent of malaria cases occur in sub-Saharan Africa. 
   Mr. Speaker, malaria is both preventable and curable. Early and effective treatment can shorten its duration and prevent the development of complications and the great majority of deaths. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SALUTING NATIONAL BAR ASSOCIATION -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute the National Bar Association that will hold its 83rd national convention in Houston, Texas. Many of its activities will be in the 18th Congressional District. The National Bar Association was formulated when its membership or its members were rejected in their attempt to be members of the American Bar Association. 
   Out of that creation came the opportunity to be at the cutting edge of civil rights legislation and litigation. 
   I want to salute the Houston Lawyers Association, salute the past presidents, the president and board of directors, and particularly I want to salute the National Bar Association for its enormous history of civil rights fighting, fighting for those who cannot speak for themselves. 
   Lawyers of the National Bar Association are patent lawyers, prosecutors, defense lawyers, and most of all, the holders and protectors of the Constitution. They have fought the cases in desegregating schools. They have provided opportunities for those who have sought equal employment. Yes, Mr. Speaker, they are in fact the conscience holders of the legal bar because the National Bar Association continues to stand for justice and equality and opportunity. 
   I am so proud that they are coming to Houston, Texas, to celebrate the 83rd annual convention, an organization of lawyers that have put forward the cause of justice. I salute them and congratulate them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished manager of this legislation and vice chairman of our caucus. 
   Madam Speaker, the United States, the American people asked us to act, and I'm proud today to rise and to support the kind of stimulus that provides opportunity not only for those who you would expect or those who are argued for, but the working men and women, middle-income Americans in my congressional district in Houston making less than $50,000, allowing them to get either $600 as a single person, $1,200 as a family, and $300 as a married couple. 
   The most important aspect is that economists estimate that each dollar of broad tax cuts leads to $1.26 in economic growth. But I hope that we will look to the addition of food stamps, summer job programs, and extension of the unemployment. And we must have the language, I hope, in the final bill, a sense of Congress that there should be a moratorium on foreclosures that are happening in America today; 2.4 million foreclosures expected in this coming year. It is imperative that we give a sense that these individuals can reconstruct their loans and survive. 
   This is a package that is needed for America. I ask my colleagues to support it.  
   Madam Speaker. I rise today in support of the Recovery Rebate and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi for her leadership on this issue, as well as my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have worked together to overcome partisan divisions to work together to stimulate our national economy. This legislation will inject $145.9 billion into the economy in 2008, over two-thirds of which will come in the form of tax rebate checks, given directly to individuals and families. 
   However, while I support this legislation, I would like to express my concern about some of this bill's omissions. I requested and had hoped that this legislation would include language declaring that it is the sense of Congress that a moratorium of up to 90 days should be declared on all home foreclosures, and that it is the sense of Congress that the financial industry should allow for the reconstruction and reconfiguration of the mortgage loan market. 
   Madam Speaker, I would like to see the following language included in the final legislation, agreed on by both Houses and signed into law by the President: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today with great concern to H.R. 5104, to extend the Protect American Act of 2007 for 30 days. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee and I applaud him for his consistent and impeccable commitment to civil liberties and civil rights. 
   Madam Speaker, this administration has the legal responsibility to protect the American people. Let no one come to this floor and suggest that what we are doing today is going to save lives, because last year we passed legislation that indicated that foreign-to-foreign communication had no barriers, no barriers for those who are seeking intelligence. 
   Yet when an American was involved, the Bill of Rights, the fourth amendment, civil liberties with the underpinnings, and therefore a court intervened. Extending the Protect America Act for 30 days in the hopes that the Senate will produce a version that we are satisfied with is not a sufficient reason for violating the civil rights and liberties of the American people. 
   Homeland security is not a Republican or a Democratic issue. It is an issue for all Americans--all of us. Not one of us who sang ``God Bless America'' on the steps of this House will allow anyone to undermine the security of America. 
   The original legislation offered by the House Majority gave the Administration everything that they needed. However, the legislation that ultimately triumphed, and which this bill today would extend, is a disgrace to the United States constitution. By passing this bill today, we are compromising the Bill of Rights. We are telling Americans that no matter what your business is, you are subject to the unscrupulous, undisciplined, irresponsible scrutiny of the Attorney General and others without court intervention. 
   This is not the day to play politics. It is too important to balance civil liberties along with the homeland security and the protection needs of America. I feel confident that the House FISA Bill does do that. I am disheartened by the other body for their failure to recognize that we can secure America by securing the American people with fair security laws and by giving them their civil liberties. I find the Senate language extremely troublesome, 
   and I am extremely disappointed that we could not reach common ground based on the original language passed by this House. 
   I would ask my colleagues to defeat this so that we can go back to the bill that protects the civil liberties of Americans and provides homeland security. I ask my colleagues to support the Bill of Rights and National Security. 
   Had the Bush Administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the 2 preceding years, we would not be in the position of debating legislation that has such a profound impact on the national security and on American values and civil liberties in the crush of exigent circumstances. More often that not, it is true as the saying goes that haste makes waste. 
   Madam Speaker, the legislation before us is intended to fill a gap in the Nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell, by amending the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. But in reality it eviscerates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution and represents an unwarranted transfer of power from the courts to the Executive Branch and a Justice Department led by an Attorney General whose reputation for candor and integrity is, to put it charitably, subject to considerable doubt. 
   Madam Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing and I am far from persuaded that it needs to be jettisoned or substantially amended. But given the claimed exigent circumstances by the Administration, let me briefly discuss some of the changes to FISA I am prepared to support on a temporary basis, not to exceed 120 days. 
   To give a detailed illustration of just how superior the RESTORE Act, which the House passed October, is to the ill-considered and hastily enacted Protect America Act, I wish to take a few moments to discuss an important improvement in the bill that was adopted in the full Judiciary Committee markup. 
   The Jackson-Lee Amendment added during the markup made a constructive contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   ``Reverse targeting,'' a concept well known to members of this Committee but not so well understood by those less steeped in the arcana of electronic surveillance, is the practice where the government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with the PAA is that the understandable temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse 
   targeting may be difficult to resist in the absence of strong safeguards in the PAA to prevent it. 
   My amendment reduces even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the Administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieves this objective by requiring the Administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' The current language in the bill provides that a warrant be obtained only when the Government ``seeks to conduct electronic surveillance'' of a person reasonably believed to be located in the United States. 
   It was far from clear how the operative language ``seeks to'' is to be interpreted. In contrast, the language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that has long been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by the agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson-Lee Amendment provides a clearer, more objective, criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
   First, I am prepared to accept temporarily obviating the need to obtain a court order for foreign-to-foreign communications that pass through the United States. But I do insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. 
   The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a ``basket warrant'' without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. 
   There should be an initial 15-day emergency authority so that international surveillance can begin while the warrants are being considered by the Court. And there must also be congressional oversight, requiring the Department of Justice Inspector General to conduct an audit every 60 days of U.S. person communications intercepted under these warrants, to be submitted to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees. Finally, as I have stated, this authority must be of short duration and must expire by its terms in 120 days. 
   In all candor, Madam Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still nothing on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this Administration, to indicate that they require any legislative response, other than to reaffirm the exclusivity of FISA and insist that it be followed. This could have  been accomplished in the 109th Congress by passing H.R. 5371, 
   the ``Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA Act,'' ``LISTEN Act,'' which I have co-sponsored with the then Ranking Members of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, Mr. Conyers and Ms. Harman. 
   The Bush administration has not complied with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) Who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important; (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people. 
   Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Madam Speaker, the legislation before us is not necessary. The bill which a majority of the House voted to pass last year is more than sufficient to address the intelligence gathering deficiency identified by Director McConnell. That bill, H.R. 3356, provided ample amount of congressional authorization needed to ensure that our intelligence professionals have the tools that they need to protect our Nation, while also safeguarding the rights of law-abiding Americans. That is why I supported H.R. 3356, but cannot support H.R. 5104. 
   I encourage my colleagues to join me in voting against the unwise and ill-considered reauthorization of the Protect America Act of 2007.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING RELIEF FOR AMERICANS THROUGH THE ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today on the floor of the House the Members had to address a number of crises that this Nation is facing. It is interesting that we face delay and, if you will, obstruction on many of the issues that the American people want us to be engaged in. 
   I am hoping that the economic stimulus package will move as quickly as possible, and when it comes back in its final form from the Senate and conference, that we will be assured that the individuals who are disabled and on Social Security also get a rebate, and that we have the sense of the Congress language that a moratorium should be in place for all of those individuals subject to subprime loans or on the brink of foreclosure and losing their homes. We must forge a pathway for the financial industry to begin to allow people to reconstruct their loans. 
   Lastly, we voted today to extend FISA. The bill that we passed out of the Judiciary Committee under JOHN CONYERS' leadership is a good bill. I voted reluctantly for the extension, but we must pass a bill that protects civil rights and protects the national security of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION AMENDMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman, the chairwoman of the subcommittee, and chairman of our full committee as well, and certainly the ranking member and the ranking member of the subcommittee. 
   Let me also express my appreciation to Ms. Giffords. We have talked about this legislation. I congratulate her for her leadership, along with the cosponsors, including Mr. Calvert, Mr. McNulty and Mr. Johnson of my State, and all the others who are supporting this legislation. 
   If you talk to businesses in your community, they want to do the right thing, and Americans want the right process to be in place. It is important that we hire Americans first, and I think we have been committed to that during the whole period of the discussion of immigration reform. 
   But I also rise to say that it is important as we pass this legislation, giving it an extension, and I frankly believe it should not expire in November of 2008, we have to also understand that there are States where this is voluntary. I heard Mr. Calvert say there are a number of States that will now put this in place through law, but there are a number of States that do not have it in place, and therefore it is confusing. 
   We need to be able to ensure that there is a comprehensive approach to the border security question that all of us agree with, but also to recognize the hard-working tax paying individuals who are here, who really should be put in a process, a line, that eliminates this undercover workforce, that allows a pathway to citizenship with paying of fines, getting in line, not getting ahead of those who have been in line, and having a period of time that they are in this country. 
   This particular basic pilot program, however, is vital for many of our businesses. For example, the construction industries that I have met with over and over again in Houston, Texas, and I know that have been engaged with Mr. Johnson and many in this Congress to try to move forward on this program that deals with the Social Security process. 
   We have to ensure, however, as we put this in place, that it works, that the technology works, that the oversight works, and we have to make sure that in fact we get the accurate reports to make sure that those who are using it are benefiting from it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I do ask my colleagues to support this legislation, but I also ask that we get to the point of comprehensive immigration reform. But as I say that, E-Verify is a good step, it is a positive step, and I know my business community will look forward it being in force. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INJUSTICE IN JENA -- (House of Representatives - September 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow in Jena, Louisiana will be the culmination of the frustration and the outrage felt by so many  across America as relates to the Jena 6. 
   The Jena 6 is not about a few boys misbehaving, because we understand that when young people need correcting, we do so, but it is about the systemic discrimination, if you will, of African American males and Hispanic males as relates to the juvenile justice system. This young man should have been tried in the juvenile justice system, but he was tried in a system that gave him a sentence that was clearly, clearly without merit. 
   Tomorrow we go to ask for justice not just for this young man and the other five that are there, but for young men across America who have been discriminated against, not given a second chance, and using the justice system to punish on the basis of race or ethnic background. 
   Enough is enough. Where is the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division? Obviously, the lights are out. They need to turn their lights on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ANITA HILL AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, sometimes you come to the floor in a moment of personal privilege and you come because you feel compelled to speak to those and for those whose voices cannot be heard in this forum. And today I do such a task, and the task involves more than a decade-old allegation that now has been reignited, given new life through the memoirs of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. 
   Everyone has a right to defend themselves and to express the concerns that they may have regarding their reputation. All of us do. But I think it is important to take issue with the broad media coverage that Justice Thomas has secured over these days with an intent, it seems, to malign, if you will, the words, the testimony, and the truth told by Anita Hill. 
   Though over four decades have passed since title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin, or religion, a glance at today's New York Times reminds us that workforce harassment is, unfortunately, still raising its ugly head. 
   I am, frankly, offended by the attempt by Justice Thomas to suggest that Ms. Hill was not telling the truth. I do so because, of course, in the forum that he utilizes, Ms. Hill is not able to answer her accuser. 
   In listening to an interview that Ms. Hill did, she emphasizes that she was telling the truth, that there was, in her opinion and others who were witnesses, the same. But I really wonder why we would have to condemn the idea that sexual harassment does not occur and why, in trying to suggest that it doesn't occur, we would have to malign a person's actions or personality with such phrase as: Well, what was she like? Well, she could defend herself. The sentence was not finished. Defend herself against what? Suggesting that she was not the demure, religious, conservative person, I guess, that maybe she was alleged to have portrayed during those hearings before the Senate. 
   I didn't see any of that. I saw a young, energetic, but yet quiet, frightened, and intending-to-tell-the-truth young woman. I saw a young woman with courage who refused to back down in spite of the lights of all the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, sexual harassment is alive and well. You can ask some of my constituents at Ellington Air Force Base in Houston, TX. You can ask individuals who have called my office who have indicated that that is what is occurring to them in the workplace. 
   Ms. Hill's actions during that time were brave. To bring them up and drag her through the mud again in 2007 with little opportunity for her, a professor in Oklahoma, to have the same kind of hearing is unfair and does a great disservice to the work that women have done, that the National Organization of Women has done, and that so many Members of Congress have done, who have tried to bring equality to women. 
   The controversy raised national awareness about sexual harassment in the workplace, with the number of sexual harassment complaints received by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission spiking from 6,127 in 1991 to 15,342 in 1996. Why? Because women felt that at last someone had broken the glass ceiling and they could speak up. 
   The American Association of University Women reported that, according to a 2002 study of eighth to 11th grade students, 83 percent of girls and 78 percent of boys have been sexually harassed. So it crosses gender. 
   I believe a Supreme Court Justice should not have taken the opportunity in a public forum to give disdain to that which we are now trying to overcome. So I want to put into the Record, Mr. Speaker, the New York Times op-ed by Anita Hill, ``The Smear This Time,'' and I would simply ask, Mr. Speaker, that we would recognize that sexual harassment is alive and well and that Anita Hill should not be the scapegoat for someone else trying to repair their reputation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to discuss an issue that continues to plague our society: sexual harassment. Though over four decades have passed since Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin, or religion, a glance at today's New York Times reminds us that workplace harassment is, unfortunately, still rearing its ugly head in our society. I am extremely concerned about sexual harassment, which statistics indicate remains pervasive in the United States, as well as the rest of the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, though the phrase ``sexual harassment'' was coined in the 1970s, it came to the forefront of our national conscience in 1991, with the confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas's nomination to the Supreme Court. Anita Hill, then a law professor at the University of Oklahoma, alleged that Thomas sexually harassed her during her tenure as his assistant at the U.S. Department of Education and then on his legal staff at the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Despite her testimony before the Senate, Thomas was eventually confirmed by a narrow 52-48 margin. 
   As Ms. Hill writes in today's New York Times, ``The question of whether Clarence Thomas belongs on the Supreme Court is no longer on the table--it was settled by the Senate back in 1991.'' And yet, Mr. Thomas has chosen to use his prestige and his position to once again launch an attack against Ms. Hill, again blaming the victim of his alleged harassment. In his recently published book ``My Grandfather's Son'', for which Thomas has received a reported $1.5 million, Thomas smears Ms. Hill's name, not only calling her testimony lies, but also personally attacking her, describing her as ``touchy and apt to overact,'' and her job performance as ``mediocre.'' In recent interviews surrounding the publication of his book, Thomas has gone even farther, questioning her political views as well as her religious convictions, stating on the TV show ``60 Minutes'', ``She was not the demure, religious, conservative person that they portrayed.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I am appalled that Justice Thomas has once again victimized Ms. Hill, now a professor of social policy, law and women's studies at Brandeis University and a visiting scholar at the Newhouse Center for the Humanities at Wellesley College. Not only is this yet another case of blaming the victim of abuse, it sets a dangerous precedent of reversing the substantial progress toward combating sexual harassment that we have made since 1991. As Ms. Hill eloquently writes, ``Our legal system will suffer if a sitting justice's vitriolic pursuit of personal vindication discourages others from standing up for their rights.'' Mr. Speaker, sexual harassment is already grossly underreported, and this underreporting will only worsen if the women and men who are victimized are made afraid of decades of retribution, such as Ms. Hill continues to face, should they speak up about the abuse. 
   Ms. Hill's bravery in standing up before the Senate and the country in 1991 and sharing her experiences has led to a number of positive repercussions. The controversy raised national awareness about sexual harassment in  the workplace, with the number of sexual harassment complaints received by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) spiking from 6,127 in 1991 to 15,342 in 1996. Recent years have seen the number of sexual harassment cases hovering around 15,000, and in FY 2006 the EEOC reported 12,025 charges of sexual harassment. 
   However, these numbers cannot even begin to illustrate the reality of sexual harassment. According to a 2004 study, 35 percent of women and 17 percent of men surveyed reported being sexually harassed. Sexual harassment is pervasive in our educational 
   system, with the American Association of University Women reporting that, according to a 2002 study of 8th-11th grade students, 83 percent of girls and 78 percent of boys have been sexually harassed. The same organization also conducted a study of university students in 2006, finding that 62 percent of college women and 61 percent of college men report harassment, while 31 percent of university students admit to sexually harassing someone else. Despite progress toward addressing this serious issue, our children remain extremely vulnerable to harassment. 
   Sexual harassment also remains distressingly prevalent in our military. Women have become an integral part of our Nation's armed services, and they now fill 15 percent of military ranks worldwide. After a series of sex scandals in the 1990s, the United States military has made a conscientious effort to address this ongoing problem. The military now holds regular workshops on preventing sexual harassment, and each battalion has a designated Equal Opportunity representative trained to respond to any complaints. 
   However, with unprecedented numbers of women deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, recent complaints by female veterans of these conflicts have indicated that a great deal more must be done. To date, over 160,000 female soldiers have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, as compared with the 7,500 who served in Vietnam and the 41,000 who were dispatched to the gulf war in the early '90s One of every 10 U.S. soldiers in Iraq is female. According to Army studies, female solders in Iraq suffer from post traumatic stress disorder at twice the rate of their male counterparts, with 16 percent of female soldiers meeting the criteria for PTSD, as opposed to 8 percent of male soldiers. Women returning from conflict must not only deal with the psychological remnants of the conflict, many also have experienced harassment by their male counterparts. 
   Mr. Speaker, the courageous recent testimony of several female Iraq veterans indicates that the military's new measures have not been successful in eliminating sexual harassment. A study funded by the Veterans' Administration after the first gulf war suggested that the rates of both sexual harassment and assault rise during wartime. Unfortunately, a number of female Iraq veterans interviewed earlier this year by the New York Times spoke of a pervasive sense that reporting sexual crimes was not worthwhile. This is confirmed by Department of Defense statistics, which indicate that while 3,038 investigations of military sexual assault were completed in 2004 and 2005, only 329, or about one-tenth, of these cases resulted in a court-martial. 
   Sexual harassment is not confined to our Armed Forces. Though Ms. Hill's courageous testimony served as a flash point to illuminate the serious problem of sexual harassment in the workplace, the over 12,000 complaints that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission heard last year clearly indicate that this problem has not been adequately addressed. Though the provision in title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that prohibits employment discrimination based on gender was originally written to protect women, I believe it is extremely important to highlight the fact that men too are victims of sexual harassment. In fact, recent years have shown a rapid increase in the number of men reporting sexual harassment, from 9 percent of the cases received by the equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 1992 to 15.4 percent in 2006. This is not just the case in the United States; a 2006 study by the government of the United Kingdom indicated that two-fifths of all sexual harassment victims are male. If we are to adequately address this ongoing problem in our society, I believe it is extremely important that we recognize that sexual harassment is perpetrated by both men and women, and victimizes individuals of both genders. 
   Mr. Speaker, much has changed since 1991. After the controversy surrounding Justice Thomas's confirmation was decided by a Senate that was 98 percent male, 1992 saw the election of a record number of female candidates to public office, including a number of women to the Senate. Subsequently dubbed the ``Year of the Woman,'' the 1992 elections were, according to many commentators, a direct reaction to Justice Thomas's nomination 
   and confirmation. Women have since continued to become increasingly involved in politics. 
   Mr. Speaker, I do believe that we are on the right track. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reports that the number of sexual harassment cases has doubled in recent years, and of the 12,025 cases the commission received in fiscal year 2006, 11,936 were resolved, and victims were awarded $48.8 million in monetary benefits. This is an enormous increase from total awards of $7.7 million in 1991 and $27.8 million in 1996. 
   If this progress is to continue, the women, and men as well, who are victims of sexual harassment must be encouraged to come forward. What Anita Hill did in 1991 was incredibly brave; she stood in the face of the powerful to tell the truth about abuses she faced. I am appalled to see Justice Thomas use his prestige and his recent book to lash out, once again, at Ms. Hill. Though over 15 years have passed, and Justice Thomas's position in the Supreme Court is not under threat, he continues to use his pulpit to the detriment of efforts to end sexual harassment. 
   Mr. Speaker, sexual harassment is real, it remains an unfortunate part of our society, and we must do far more to combat it. Anita Hill concludes her article by stating, ``questions remain about how we will resolve the kinds of issues my testimony exposed. My belief is that in the past 16 years we have come closer to making the resolution of these issues an honest search for the truth, which, after all, is at the core of all legal inquiry. My hope is that Justice Thomas's latest fusillade will not divert us from that path.'' I sincerely share Ms. Hill's hope.  
   The Smear This Time  
   WALTHAM, MASS. On Oct. 11, 1991, I testified about my experience as an employee of Clarence Thomas's at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
   I stand by my testimony. 
   Justice Thomas has every right to present himself as he wishes in his new memoir, ``My Grandfather's Son.'' He may even be entitled to feel abused by the confirmation process that led to his appointment to the Supreme Court. 
   But I will not stand by silently and allow him, in his anger, to reinvent me. 
   In the portion of his book that addresses my role in the Senate hearings into his nomination, Justice Thomas offers a litany of unsubstantiated representations and outright smears that Republican senators made about me when I testified before the Judiciary Committee--that I was a ``combative left-winger'' who was ``touchy'' and prone to overreacting to ``slights.'' A number of independent authors have shown those attacks to be baseless. What's more, their reports draw on the experiences of others who were familiar with Mr. Thomas's behavior, and who came forward after the hearings. It's no longer my word against his. 
   Justice Thomas's characterization of me is also hobbled by blatant inconsistencies. He claims, for instance, that I was a mediocre employee who had a job in the federal government only because he had ``given it'' to me. He ignores the reality: I was fully qualified to work in the government, having graduated from Yale Law School (his alma mater, which he calls one of the finest in the country), and passed the District of Columbia Bar exam, one of the toughest in the nation. 
   In 1981, when Mr. Thomas approached me about working for him, I was an associate in good standing at a Washington law firm. In 1991, the partner in charge of associate development informed Mr. Thomas's mentor, Senator John Danforth of Missouri, that any assertions to the contrary were untrue. Yet, Mr. Thomas insists that I was ``asked to leave'' the firm. 
   It's worth noting, too, that Mr. Thomas hired me not once, but twice while he was in the Reagan administration--first at the Department of Education and then at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. After two years of working directly for him, I left Washington and returned home to Oklahoma to begin my teaching career. 
   In a particularly nasty blow, Justice Thomas attacked my religious conviction, telling ``60 Minutes'' this weekend, ``She was not the demure, religious, conservative person that they portrayed.'' Perhaps he conveniently forgot that he wrote a letter of recommendation for me to work at the law school at Oral Roberts University, in Tulsa. I remained at that evangelical Christian university for three years, until the law school was sold to Liberty University, in Lynchburg, Va., another Christian college. Along with other faculty members, I was asked to consider a position there, but I decided to remain near my family in Oklahoma. 
   Regrettably, since 1991, I have repeatedly seen this kind of character attack on women and men who complain of harassment and discrimination in the workplace. In efforts to assail their accusers' credibility, detractors routinely diminish people's professional contributions. Often the accused is a supervisor, in a position to describe the complaining employee's work as ``mediocre'' or the employee as incompetent. Those accused of inappropriate behavior also often portray the individuals who complain as bizarre caricatures of themselves--oversensitive, even fanatical, and often immoral--even though they enjoy good and productive working relationships with their colleagues. 
   Finally, when attacks on the accusers' credibility fail, those accused of workplace  improprieties downgrade the level of harm that may have occurred. When sensing that others will believe their accusers' versions of events, individuals confronted with their own bad behavior try to reduce legitimate concerns to the level of mere words or ``slights'' that should be dismissed without discussion. 
   Fortunately, we have made progress since 1991. Today, when employees complain of abuse in the workplace, investigators and judges are more likely to examine all the evidence and less likely to simply accept as true the word of those in power. But that could change. Our legal system will suffer if a sitting justice's vitriolic pursuit of personal vindication discourages others from standing up for their rights. 
   The question of whether Clarence Thomas belongs on the Supreme Court is no longer on the table--it was settled by the Senate back in 1991. But questions remain about how we will resolve the kinds of issues my testimony exposed. My belief is that in the past 16 years we have come closer to making the resolution of these issues an honest search for the truth, which, after all, is at the core of all legal inquiry. My hope is that Justice Thomas's latest fusillade will not divert us from that path. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FOREIGN SERVICE VICTIMS OF TERRORISM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2828, to provide compensation to relatives of United States citizens who were killed as a result of the bombings of United States embassies in East Africa on August 7, 1998. I would like to commend my colleague, Congressman JESSE JACKSON, JR., for introducing this important and long-overdue legislation, and I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman LANTOS, for his leadership on this important issue. 
   I have been pleased to work with Congressman JACKSON, and to cosponsor this bill, because I strongly believe that the relatives of the victims of the 1998 East Africa bombings have gone too long without the recognition and the compensation they need and deserve. I was also pleased to work with the Chairman of the Committee, Congressman LANTOS, to ensure that these families receive what they deserve. 
   Mr. Speaker, as you are well aware, in 1998 simultaneous bombs exploded at United States embassies in the East African capital cities of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya. These attacks, which killed hundreds of people, first brought international attention to Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda terrorist network, and stand out as one of the worst anti-American terrorist attacks preceding September 11, 2001.  
   Mr. Speaker, nearly a decade later, the families of those victims who died in these bombings still have not been compensated. In contrast, after the catastrophic events of September 11, Congress acted relatively quickly to set up the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund, which paid out nearly $6 billion to 2,880 families of those injured on that catastrophic day. We have shown compassion toward those affected by terrorism, and we have shown that we can act with purpose and haste. It is now time to finally act to compensate the families of those who died in East Africa. 
   In the case of the Kenya bombings, a 2001 bipartisan review panel found no negligence per se, but did find that there was an ``institutional failure ..... to recognize threats posed by transnational terrorism and vehicle bombs worldwide.'' The intelligence community had been monitoring several Al Qaeda associates in Nairobi for 2 years. That information was not shared with the diplomats bidding on assignments in Nairobi. Prior to the attack, then-Ambassador Prudence Bushnell warned the State Department about the vulnerability of the embassy and requested more security. Instead of properly addressing Bushnell's concerns, State replied: ``go back to Nairobi, don't send any more cables about this or we are going to place a statement in your personnel file.'' 
   After this cavalier treatment of embassy officials in Africa, many of the relatives of those killed were treated dismissively by the State Department upon returning to the United States. Instead of compassion they found bureaucracy, and instead of recompense they found only red tape. Now, 9 years later, those families are still awaiting sufficient compensation. While no amount of money can bring back loved ones or heal the wounds this act of terrorism caused, we must make an effort to ensure that the families receive some degree of comfort. 
   This legislation would amend the Foreign Service Act to provide a death benefit to all U.S. Government employees abroad in U.S. diplomatic facilities who are killed in an act of international terrorism. It would retroactively require the Secretary of State to compensate those killed since 1998, including the Nairobi families, at ten times the salary of the highest paid employee in the embassy. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation recognizes one of the most tragic and unfortunate incidents in the history of the Department of State. We have waited too long to bring recognition and compensation to the families of those who perished in these tragic bombings. I am pleased to have worked with these brave families to bring this legislation, with a full compensation package, before the Committee today. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ETHIOPIA DEMOCRACY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2003, the Ethiopia Democracy and Accountability Act of 2007, which I, together with over 80 of my colleagues, have co-sponsored. This important legislation reaffirms the United States commitment to supporting human rights, democracy, independence of the judiciary, freedom of the press, and economic development in the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. 
   I would like thank Chairman PAYNE for introducing this important legislation, and Chairman LANTOS for his leadership on this important issue. I was pleased to work with both Chairmen within the Committee on Foreign Affairs to incorporate important language into the bill at the committee markup. As amended, to reflect my language, I believe that this bill is an important and firm diplomatic step toward addressing our serious concerns with Ethiopia. 
   My language will work to bolster an independent judiciary in Ethiopia by encouraging exchanges between Ethiopian and United States jurists, law schools, law professors, and law students, especially in legal fields such as constitutional law, role of the judiciary, due process, habeas corpus, political and voting rights, criminal law and procedure, and discrimination. Mr. Speaker, Ethiopia's judicial system is making important strides forward, but it still requires our support and ongoing engagement. Such exchanges would be mutually beneficially to both American and Ethiopian legal students and professionals.  
   In addition, I am pleased to have successfully offered language that added exemptions for international military education and training for civilian personnel under section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, commonly referred to as ``Expanded IMET,'' from the restrictions on security assistance until the Government of Ethiopia can certify it has met certain standards of human rights, democracy, and economic development. While I certainly believe these standards are crucial goals, and that we should be using our aid programs as an incentive for the government to meet these objectives, I also strongly believe that we must continue to fund crucial programs. IMET ensures that the military and related civilian personnel receive a range of necessary training, in important areas including human rights and military justice. I do not believe these crucial programs should be suspended, pending certification. Making sure that the military receives proper training, including in international standards and norms, is a crucial component to helping Ethiopia meet human rights specifications. 
   Finally, I offered language to provide assistance to promote the privatization of government industries and property. As Ethiopia transitions from a socialist structure to an open-market, I believe it is mutually beneficial for us to assist in this groundbreaking transformation. My language authorizes the President, acting through USAID, to provide assistance to promote the privatization of government owned or controlled industries and property in Ethiopia. 
   Mr. Speaker, though Ethiopia is currently on the road to democracy, I do not believe we should be treating the country with kid gloves. This is a path that should be paved with civil and political discourse, peaceful transitions of power, and respect for human rights. By necessity, the achievement of a modem democracy requires the implementation of electoral reforms, the separation of powers in the government, and the establishment of a truly independent judiciary. These are the founding principles of our American Republic, and I have seen firsthand the progress on the path to democracy Ethiopia has made since the brutal dictatorship of Mengistu Haile Mariam was brought down in 1991. I strongly believe that the United States should do all it can to support this transition, including bolstering civil society and speaking out when fundamental human rights are violated. 
   Mr. Speaker, Ethiopia is a leader in its region, and in the African continent, and has the potential to be a great global leader. However, years of fighting and alleged abuses are standing in the way of Ethiopia's progress. We need a roadmap toward establishing peace, stability, protection of human rights, and democracy in Ethiopia, and in the entire Horn of Africa region. This will necessitate addressing the ongoing lawlessness in neighboring Somalia, which continues to destabilize and threaten the entire region. 
   Ethiopia has a long and proud history. It is the cradle of mankind, as illustrated by ``Lucy,'' also known as Dinkinesh (Amharic for ``you are wonderful''), which is the nearly complete hominid skeleton discovered by archaeologists in the Awash Valley of Ethiopia on November 30, 1974. Lucy is estimated to have lived 3.2 million years ago and has redefined science's understanding of human evolution. I was happy to work with Texas State Senator Rodney Ellis, Ethiopian Ambassador Samuel Assefa, and the Houston Museum of Natural Science to bring Lucy to Houston, which is one of only 9 American cities and the only city in Texas to host the exhibit. The bones are currently on display in Houston, and will be until April 2008. 
   Ethiopia is also the oldest independent nation in Africa, has never been colonized, and is home to the African Union. Despite Ethiopia's rich history, however, this bill recognizes that recent decades have brought hardship and suffering to Ethiopia's people, through military conflict, natural disasters, and a military dictatorship. 
   For over a decade in the House of Representatives, and prior to that in the Houston city council, I have been an outspoken and unwavering advocate for the country of Ethiopia and its people, both in Ethiopia and in the diaspora. Following in the legendary footsteps of my predecessor, Mickey Leland, who died attempting 
   to alleviate the starvation faced by Ethiopia's innocent populace, I have been a champion of increasing foreign aid to, political, economic, and social cooperation with, and improving human rights in Ethiopia. 
   While I continue to advocate close interaction and constructive dialogue with Ethiopia and its leaders, I believe the human rights situation there must be addressed. Of particular recent concern was the detention of elected parliamentarians, human rights advocates, and independent journalists and the harsh response to protesters after Ethiopia's recent unprecedented elections in 2005. In response to reports that thousands of prisoners languished in prisons throughout Ethiopia, I was proud to join a number of my colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary Rice, expressing our strong concern about the treatment of detainees. 
   In July, an Ethiopian court harshly sentenced 35 opposition leaders and activists to life in prison and denied them the right to vote or run for public office on charges of inciting violence. Although I was pleased to see the Court rebuff the prosecution's call for the death sentence against these defendants, I believe that the sentence of life imprisonment is still too severe a punishment. 
   However, I am heartened by the active role that elders such as Professor Ephraim Isaac played in the negotiations for these prisoners' release, and I was extremely pleased that these negotiations led to the release of these prisoners. Only through amnesty will the Ethiopian government and opposition leaders be able to secure a path to reconciliation rather than assuring a future of political divisiveness. 
   This legislation reaffirms the United States commitment to supporting Ethiopia as it builds the necessary institutions and civil society framework for a successful democracy. It contains a number of important provisions directing the Department of State to provide mechanisms for supporting and monitoring the promotion of human rights and democracy within Ethiopia. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that we in Congress should focus on the pursuit of truth. It is extremely important that we seek truthful accounts of what is going on in Ethiopia, and in the entire Horn of Africa region, and that we use these reports to develop a roadmap that will guide Ethiopia along the path to democracy and greater guarantees for human rights. This roadmap must be characterized, above all, by firm diplomacy. 
   I would like to conclude by reiterating my firm belief in the extreme importance of supporting the strengthening of democracy and human rights in Ethiopia.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING COMMENCEMENT OF RAMADAN AND COMMENDING MUSLIMS FOR THEIR FAITH -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Ms. Speaker I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 635, recognizing the commencement of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month of fasting and spiritual renewal, and commending Muslims in the United States and throughout the world for their faith. I would like to thank my colleague, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson, as well as the 30 other cosponsors for introducing this important and timely piece of legislation. I would also like to thank Chairman Lantos for his leadership on this issue. This important legislation brings us together in celebration with our Muslim brothers and sisters, during this, their holy month of fasting and spirituality. 
   Since the tragic terrorist attacks on the United States of September 11, 2001, patriotic, law-abiding Muslims-Americans of the Islamic faith have been targeted by threats and incidents of violence. The House of Representatives has rebuked and condemned such actions from their very inception, with their September 14, 2001 resolution condemning bigotry and violence against American Muslims, and must continue to do so. It is important during this period of international uncertainty and apprehension to look to our commonalities, recognizing universal values that transcend culture, nationality, and religion. 
   The Muslim American Community has grown in size and prominence, and is an integral part of the fabric of this nation. The Muslim population in North America is characterized by its diversity. Some 80 nations are represented in the mosque communities of the United States, including a variety of traditions, practices, doctrines, and beliefs. Muslim Americans share the same values and ideals that make this nation great. These include ideals such as discipline, generosity, peace and moderation. In no month is this more evident than in the month of Ramadan, when more than a billion Muslims all across the world renew their bonds to family and friends, to neighbors and colleagues, and most of all to God. Ramadan is a special time of prayer and fasting, contemplation of God's greatness, and service to those in need. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is in the spirit of equality and sharing that we must recognize the universal values of family, community, and faith that we all share. By recognizing the Islamic faith as one of the great religions of the world, the House of Representatives may demonstrate solidarity with and support for the members of the Muslim community, both within the United States and throughout the world. By supporting this legislation, we may convey our respect to the Muslim community and commend the vast majority of Muslims within the U.S. and across the globe who have rejected the misapplication and misinterpretation of their religion. 
   As a co-sponsor of this legislation I feel that this is an issue we must address and I therefore strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITIONAL RELEASE OF DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H. Con. Res. 200, condemning the violent suppression of Buddhist monks and other peaceful demonstrators in Burma and calling for the immediate and unconditional release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. I want to congratulate my good friend and colleague, the distinguished Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security from New York, Peter King, on this extremely timely resolution on the deteriorating human rights situation in Burma. 
   When this bill was first introduced in August, the main concern was for the well-being of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize Winner Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and the overall deplorable human rights situation in Burma. Little did the members of Congress or the Committee know that only a few weeks later we would be witnessing this unrelenting brutality, as the Junta released its military personnel to crack down on the non-violent protesters and the Buddhist Monks. These actions set a new low even for this regime. 
   Even before this latest escalation, Burma's human rights record was abysmal. Systematic rapes as a means of war against ethnic minorities, the burning and destruction of their villages, the torture and arbitrary arrest of dissidents and trafficking in people and illicit drugs, are all hallmarks of this illegitimate regime. This unenviable record guarantees the military government a leading place among the world's worst human rights offenders. The Burmese regime has led this beautiful and resource-rich country down the spiraling path of degradation, instability, economic plunder and bankruptcy. 
   Prominent pro-democracy leader and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, has had various restrictions placed on her activities since the late 1980s. Her party, the National League for Democracy, won a landslide victory in 1990 in Burma's first multi-party elections for 30 years, but she has never been allowed to govern. In 1990, the ruling military junta placed the rightfully and lawfully elected Daw Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest, where she has remained ever since. During 
   her arrest, she was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 1990, and the Nobel Peace Prize the year after. Her sons Alexander and Kim accepted the Nobel Peace Prize on her behalf. Aung San Suu Kyi used the Nobel Peace Prize's 1.3 million USD prize money to establish a health and education trust for the Burmese people. 
   On August 15, in a sign of incredible courage, non-violent protesters, took spontaneously to the streets and protested the government's actions, demanding the release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and a meaningful dialogue to national reconciliation and democracy. Thousands of Buddhist monks started leading protests on September 18, and were joined by Buddhist nuns on September 23. Undeterred by threats of military retaliation, on September 24, as many as 100,000 protesters led by monks marched in the largest protest Burma has seen in two decades. 
   In the wake of the protests, hundreds were arrested, beaten, and severely tortured. Peaceful monks were disrobed and severely abused, tortured and imprisoned. Over the past week, nearly 4,000 monks have been rounded up by the military. There are reports of hundreds if not thousands of bodies now littering the jungles near Burma's largest cities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMISSION ON THE ABOLITION OF THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished chairman of the committee. I rise enthusiastically to support the present legislation on the floor, because we have had a rocky time, Mr. Speaker, over the last couple of months, and we have raised in the current light that race and history are not relevant. 
   I am grateful that the most powerful lawmaking body in the world has now come to the floor to acknowledge the slave trade and all of the ramifications, from its beginning to its ending, because we have been told over the last couple of months that there is no concern to a young African American male still being incarcerated in the State of Georgia and that race is not an issue. We have been told that there is no problem to the existence of the Jena Six, and that race is not an issue. Likewise, we have been told that inequity in our school systems that impact heavily on African American and other minorities is not an issue of race, and many times it is. So to be able to rise to debate this question of recognizing the impact of slavery and the slave trade and its relationship to our international allies and their history with it is extremely important. 
   Might I, in my comments, as I support the underlying bill, thank the chairman for his leadership. I thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee. I particularly thank the chairman for his leadership on remuneration. 
   On the previous bill, very briefly, I would like to acknowledge my support for the remuneration of those families that suffered in the tragedy of the African Embassies, who did not get a response, did not get coverage, did not get a response from the Federal Government for 9 years after this tragic incident where they lost their loved ones. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the full committee and other members of the full Committee on Foreign Affairs for understanding that the moneys had to be raised to compensate for the grief and pain that these particular family members now hold dear to their heart. That legislation was long in coming, and it is crucial that we did it under this Democratic majority Congress. We pressed the administration to sign it. 
   Then I would finally like to comment, Mr. Speaker, that my delay was because we had a hearing, at the same time as this legislation, on Ethiopia. Having just come back from Ethiopia, I know how hard Mr. Payne has toiled. I, frankly, am concerned on the recent legislation that I know has just passed that we would have an indictment of a chairperson who has shown nothing but love and affection for the continent of Africa. 
   I said in my remarks that we need to be big boys and girls. The world arena of diplomacy is a tough business, and we need to be able to have tough love. We need to be able to love the people of Ethiopia and its opportunities, but we likewise need to know that we need to be able to promote human rights, we need to be able to have an independent judiciary, we need to be able to have a move toward democratization and a recognition of the brilliance of Prime Minister Meles. 
   But we have to address the concerns of the people, and I am grateful that amendments that I offered in that legislation now on the floor were accepted, that we have greater exchange between U.S. and Ethiopian judiciary, that we begin to look at changing property ownership from Ethiopia to the people. I saw that firsthand in Ethiopia. And in the discussion we had in the committee, it is important that we look at the Somalia-Ethiopian border and the people caught up in that crisis and begin to fight for humanitarian rights. 
   That is crucial. I believe that this legislation that passed just prior to my coming to the floor, I believe the legislation on the terrorist victims whose families were lost in the African Embassies 9 years ago, and this legislation, begins to address nationally and internationally that America understands that this Congress will not abnegate its responsibility to, one, affirm its commitment to the continent of Africa, but also to understand the questions of race, and that race should not be negated for the crisis that we face. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me thank you for your leadership and also for the acceptance of my amendments regarding the Ethiopian bill. I still, in the name of Mickey Leland, have a love and affection for Ethiopia and will continue to work with a degree of tough love with Ethiopia. I hope that the message that came forward, that you can't be harsh, you have to handle it with kid gloves, is very tricky and that it does not keep us from fighting for those incarcerated, fighting for those who are in need of humanitarian needs, and affirming the value of Ethiopia as it fights with us in the war against terror, and in Sudan. Why should we be afraid to give tough love? It will help the people of Ethiopia. That is what we are looking for. 
   Ethiopian Americans, bring us your roadmap so that we can work together and make not only the United States the best country in the world, but work with Ethiopia as it aspires to be a shining star of democracy on the continent.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3432, the 200th Anniversary Commemoration Commission of the Abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade of 2007, which I am proud, along with over 90 of my colleagues, to cosponsor. This legislation recognizes the 200th anniversary of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, and it establishes the rubric from which the Commission, to be known as the ``Transatlantic Slave Trade 200th Anniversary Commission,'' shall be formed. 
   I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Congressman Payne, for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman Lantos, for his leadership on this issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, though 200 years have passed since the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, the legacy of slavery continues to have a profound impact on American society. The legacy of social and economic disparity lives on, as do hatred, bias, and discrimination. Despite two centuries of progress, the African American community continues to feel the impact of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, and subsequent years of racism and persecution. 
   While our Nation has pursued the ideals of liberty and equality for all, there still remain steps that must be taken in order to ensure that even such a dark piece of our Nation's history be preserved and its conclusion at the hand of President Thomas Jefferson be celebrated. 
   Mr. Speaker, the bill before us establishes a commission to cultivate and preserve the memory of a grave injustice in American history, we must recognize and in some small way try to rectify our past. In the early years of the Republic, the transatlantic slave trade constituted a thriving economic vein of the United States. By 1807, millions of Africans had been captured and transported to the Americas, many perishing as the result of torture, rape, malnutrition, and disease. It was not until March of 1807 that President Thomas Jefferson signed into law ``An Act to prohibit the importation of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States,'' a Congressionally approved bill intended to end the heinous practice of the transatlantic slave trade. 
   It is in commemoration of President Jefferson's revolutionary act, and to explore further the impacts of the slave trade on our Nation that H.R. 3432 establishes the 200th Anniversary Commemoration Commission. This import commission will be composed of 11 congressionally appointed members charged with the task of planning, developing, and executing programs and activities appropriate to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade. 
   January 1, 2008 will mark the 200th anniversary of the ``Act to Prohibit the Importation of Slaves.'' The United States today serves as a moral compass for the rest of the world and as such we must provide a voice for human trafficking issues. Our willingness to confront our Nation's past and to address the impacts of the slave trade and its legacy on the Unites States strengthens our undeterred commitment to serving as an advocate for human rights and freedom in the international community. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEVELOPING A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Tanner is right. It is not the war we haven't won; it is the peace. And I want to encourage my friends on the other side of the aisle, join me in a bipartisan stand to bring our troops home now. 
   I didn't support this bill originally, but I support it now because I understand that we make steps one by one. But I don't want to be chastised about bipartisanship because I want us all to work in a bipartisan way to, one, bring our troops home, and to recognize that it is not only the military power but it is the diplomatic power. 
   This legislation is the right direction. It commands an intervention by the Congress, a 60-day report, how are we going to redeploy, and a 90-day update. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I am looking forward to our troops coming home as heroes, and I'm working every day for them to come home with their families, a proclamation of their military success, a welcome home party in every single hamlet and village, and all the flowers that they can tolerate. That's what I call a declaration of the end of this tragedy. 
   But this is a good step today because we are in the mix. We're fighting to get them home. We are demanding that they come home. We are getting a report. We are forcing the Pentagon to think, and that is what we need to do. 
   But I look forward to my colleagues joining us and having a bipartisan vote on a time certain for these troops to come home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEVELOPING A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3087, which requires the President, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other senior military leaders, to develop and transmit to Congress a comprehensive strategy for the redeployment of the armed forces in Iraq. I am in favor of requiring the President to develop a comprehensive strategy for the redeployment of American forces out of Iraq. A good plan is a good thing. A bad plan is a bad thing. But worst of all, is having no plan at all, which has been the sad state of affairs in Iraq for the past four years. So H.R. 3087 represents a small step in the right direction. However, there is more to be done, much more. 
   While I am not opposed to this legislation requiring the administration to develop and transmit to the Congress a comprehensive strategy for redeploying our troops out of Iraq, I believe I speak for most Americans when I say that what we really want is to have the 160,000 brave men and women wearing the uniform in the service of their country reunited with their families and friends and contributing to their communities back here in America. 
   I am working toward the day when our soldiers, marines, sailors, and airmen can leave Iraq and return to the United States where they can receive the heroes welcome they deserve. I am working toward the day when the President of the United States issues a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating military success in Iraq. I can foresee the day when our troops who have known heat and hardship and horror in Iraq are again returned to their own land where they can be with family and friends and enjoy freedom and faith and fun. If H.R. 3087 hastens that day by just 24 hours, I can support it. But I will never be satisfied until our troops have been delivered out of Iraq and back to their loved ones. 
   Mr. Speaker, the administration has consistently placed far too great an emphasis on military objectives and solutions, and has consequently not allowed diplomacy the role it was intended to play in our global system. The administration stated, ``In the coming months, the United States will continue to operate along four lines of operation--security, political, economic, and diplomatic--to advance our objectives.'' In our war on terror, diplomacy cannot be used as a last resort. A war on terrorism is, as the Bush Administration has stated, a war for the ``hearts and minds,'' which simply cannot be won through military action. 
   Mr. Speaker, our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now 
   caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for some time now, argued the importance of the Congress going on record acknowledging for all the world to know the success of the America's armed forces in Iraq. Our brave troops have completed the task we set for them; it is time now to bring them home. Our next steps should not be a continuing escalation of military involvement, but instead a diplomatic surge. 
   As the former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 Commission, Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, recently stated, ``Military power is essential to our security, but if the only tool is a hammer, pretty soon every problem looks like a nail. We must use all the tools of U.S. power--including foreign aid, educational assistance and vigorous public diplomacy that emphasizes scholarship, libraries and exchange programs--to shape a Middle East and a Muslim world that are less hostile to our interests and values. America's long-term security relies on being viewed not as a threat but as a source of opportunity and hope.'' 
   Despite the multitude of mistakes committed by President Bush and former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in administering a democratic election and electing a democratic government. However, only the Iraqi Government can secure a lasting peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi Government has demonstrated an inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the American people. 
   Last month, the House Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am a member, heard testimony on the Government Accountability Office report on Iraqi progress toward the 18 legislative, economic, and security benchmarks. The Comptroller General of the GAO informed members that only three of these benchmarks have been met by the Maliki government. Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the Iraqi government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their country. The more than 3,750 U.S. casualties and the $3,816 per second we are spending in Iraq have not bought peace or security. 
   We are not here today to debate whether there has been some decrease in violence in Baghdad. The United States military is a skilled and highly proficient organization, and where there are large numbers of U.S. troops,  it is unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of violence. However, it is our responsibility to take a longer-term view. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not seen a demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi government. 
   Mr. Speaker, President Bush stated in June 2005, ``Our strategy can be summed up this way: As the Iraqis stand up, we will stand down.'' Instead of concentrating on building local capacity and applying pressure to the Maliki government to force them to take responsibility for the destiny of their nation, the Administration has chosen to pursue policies, namely the Baghdad security plan, that focus on continued combat by U.S. forces, rather than transferring responsibilities to Iraqis. As a result, Iraqi security forces, ISF remain entirely dependent upon U.S. troops; the August 2007 National Intelligence Estimate reports that the ISF ``have not 
   improved enough to conduct major combat operations independent of the Coalition'' and ``remain reliant on the Coalition for important aspects of logistics and combat support.'' With the New Way Forward strategy, American troops continue to shoulder the majority of the war effort. 
   How will we know when the American forces are no longer needed? In testimony before a Joint Foreign Affairs-Armed Services Committees hearing last week, both General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker painted an optimistic picture of the situation in Iraq, making frequent reference to the progress and success in the Anbar province. However, Iraqi Parliament member and leading Shi'a cleric, Jamal Al-Din, said in a Congressional Briefing the following day that he did not recognize the country they described as the Iraq he represents, an Iraq that continues to be riddles with factionalism, extremism, and domestic strife. Even the administration's report projects a daunting list of challenges that face American troops on Iraq as well as Iraqis. These include: communal struggle for power between Shi'a majority and Sunni Kurd and other minorities; Al-Qaeda extremists in Iraq acting as accelerants for ethno-sectarian violence; Iranian lethal support to Shi'a militants; and foreign support to extremists in Iraq. And while General Petraeus and the Bush administration have been stressing the progress made in the region and the need for more time, they failed to note that sizeable increase in ethno-sectarian deaths in July and August and the fact that ethno-sectarian violence presents a substantial challenge to stability in the region, particularly in rural areas where security presence is light. 
   And while the situation in Iraq presents an open-ended military challenge to our forces abroad, our presence in the region may be hindering the security of our Nation. Evidence suggests that not only is increased U.S. military presence in Iraq not making that nation more secure, it may also be threatening our national security by damaging our ability to respond to real threats to our own homeland. The recently released video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate that President Bush has not caught this international outlaw, nor brought him to justice. Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror to the war of his choice in Iraq. 
   Recently, the former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 commission, Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, published an op-ed in the Washington Post examining the question of whether our nation is safer today, six years after 9/11. Kean and Hamilton concluded, ``We still lack a sense of urgency in the face of grave danger.'' The persistence of this threat is attributed to ``a mixed record of reform, a lack of focus, and a resilient foe,'' and the authors note that our own actions have contributed to a rise of radicalization and rage in the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write that ``no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, treasure, and support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than the war in Iraq. It has become a powerful recruiting and training tool for al-Qaeda.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, Iraq faces a severe crisis. With a factionalist government in which parties are based on religion, a qualification that is strictly forbidden within the Iraqi constitution, religious, tribal, and ethnic tensions remain high and mere subsistence has become a challenge to the average citizen. The UNHCR has recently said that more than two million Iraqi's have claimed refugee status abroad since the invasion, while an additional 60,000 people flee their homes each month. In a recent statement, Ambassador Crocker the admission of refugees was ``bogged down by major bottlenecks.'' 
   The Administration has spent so much time and money on its military strategy that it is ill-equipped to handle the human rights 
   atrocities that are occurring. And while the United States delays admission of refugees based on a myriad of bureaucratic security checks, Ambassador Crocker states, ``refugees who have fled Iraq continue to be a vulnerable population while living in Jordan and Syria.'' 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to draw attention to the lack of adequate oversight of the American war effort. Given the enormous amount of resources involved, coupled with the catastrophic costs in human lives, we would certainly expect adequate management of U.S. funds and military supplies. We would expect clear records of exactly where those $10 billion a month is going, and to whom it is being given. And yet, the GAO reports that the Pentagon has lost track of over 190,000 weapons, given to Iraqis, particularly in 2004 and 2005. The report states that the U.S. military does not know what happened to 30 percent of the weapons the United States distributed to Iraqi forces from 2004 through early this year as part of an effort to train and equip the troops. These weapons could be used to kill our American troops. 
   In addition, only yesterday, the Iraqi government stated that it would review the status of all private security firms operating in the country. This announcement came after a controversial gunfight on Sunday, involving the U.S.-based firm Blackwater USA, left eight civilians dead. Mr. Speaker, reports indicate that there are currently at least 28 private security companies operating in Iraq, employing thousands of security guards. This incident suggests the need for superior oversight and accountability for contractors in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, the real tragedy of this war has been the deaths of so many of our American sons and daughters. At current count, the Department of Defense had confirmed a total of 3,808 U.S. casualties. In addition, more than 28,009 have been wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. June, July, and August have marked the bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. casualties in Iraq are 62 percent higher this year than at this time in 2006. This misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent in American history. 
   Before I close, Mr. Speaker, I would like to discuss briefly an important legislative proposal that I will soon introduce. This legislation, the ``Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007,'' recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation from a grateful nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq. 
   There are many interesting and important legislative proposals relating to the war in Iraq. Most of them, however, are contentious and divisive making it difficult for them to attract broad support across the aisle. In this respect my legislation is different. That is because it involves an issue over which there should be widespread and broad-based consensus. We should all be able to agree that one good and sufficient reason to redeploy U.S. troops out of Iraq is because they have achieved their mission objectives. They have been victorious in every battle and have won the military victory they were sent to win in March 2003. They are victors and heroes who have never been defeated on the battlefield. 
   Blaming the current chaos in Iraq on our military is like blaming the Continental Army for the outbreak of the Civil War. In each case, the armed forces did their jobs--they won the war they 
   were sent to fight; in each case, it was the civilian leadership that failed to win or maintain the peace. 
   The Armed Forces of the United States are not to be used to respond to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's that have done all they can to take responsibility for the security of their country and safety of their own people. The United States cannot do for Iraq what Iraqis are not willing to do for themselves. 
   When our heroic young men and women willingly sacrifice life or limb on the battlefield, the nation has a moral obligation to ensure that they are treated with respect and dignity. One reason we are the greatest nation in the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve to know that a grateful nation cares about them. 
   Outside of my office there is a poster-board with the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing the uniform of our country. I think to myself how lucky I am to live in a nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer to the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. Now is the time to remind our heroes they have not been forgotten. More importantly, America has not forgotten them. 
   My legislation, the Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007, pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, and heroism of  those who fought in Iraq in the following ways. First, my bill provides an express finding by the Congress that the objectives for which the AUMF resolution of 2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed Forces of the United States. 
   Second, my bill authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the American people to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the Armed Forces' military success in Iraq. This will help ensure that the Iraq War does not suffer the fate of other open-ended engagements like the Korean War, which is often called the ``Forgotten War.'' 
   Third, my bill authorizes funds to be appropriated and awarded by the Secretary of Defense to state and local governments to assist in defraying the costs of conducting suitable ``Success in Iraq'' homecoming and commemoration activities and in creating appropriate memorials honoring those who lost their lives in the war. Many of the casualties in the Iraq War come from small towns and villages in rural or economically depressed areas. The local governments are already facing substantial fiscal pressures and need help coming up with the necessary funds. 
   Finally, my bill creates a program and authorizes funds to be appropriated pursuant to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award to each veteran of the Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom a grant of $5,000 to facilitate the transition to civilian life. We don't want veterans to end up homeless or unemployed or unable to take their kids on a vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus is but a small token of the affection the people of the United States have for those who risked their lives so that we may continue to live in freedom. 
   Mr. Speaker, perhaps no issue will more define this Congress than how we conclude this misguided conflict. I am proud to be a part of a Congress that is listening to the clearly expressed will of the American people, and I remain, as ever, committed to ending this truly tragic conflict.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 5818, the ``Neighborhood Stabilization Act of 2008,'' introduced by Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS, of California. I would also like to thank Chairman BARNEY FRANK for his leadership on the Financial Services Committee. I also support the Kucinich amendment to ensure accurate vacancy statistics. 
   I find it interesting that we are okay with a bailout of Bear Stearns, the fifth largest investment firm in the amount of 42 million dollars; however we cannot support assistance to the American Homeowners who are struggling to pay their mortgage, fill up at the pump, and get quality healthcare. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 3221, FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I will be happy to engage my good friend from Alabama and both of us go to the Department of Justice, the SEC and begin to file legal action against the unscrupulous investors on Wall Street who took these mortgages knowing that they had a cheap deal. If he will join me, we will walk down to the Department of Justice right now to get the Attorney General to begin filing major litigation against these scandalous, unscrupulous individuals, if that's what he would like to do. 
   But right now on the floor of the House we have major legislation that is going to address the question of the suffering of Americans. And I'm going to take this brief opportunity to acknowledge the bill sponsored by my good friend and colleague, Congresswoman Waters, on H.R. 5818. We've passed the rule, but I want to support the underlying premise that once we get through with the major reconstruction, that the bill that we are now discussing and the rule that we're now discussing, we will have $15 billion to go into these communities and be able to buy back these properties and to take them off of the streets and to make sure that low-income individuals that need affordable houses, families that are broken because of the foreclosure scandal will be able to get back into their community. This is good legislation. 
   Now, as we move forward on the FHA stabilization on the Senate amendments that we're now discussing, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, let us put this in the right perspective. We lost 20,000 jobs in April. We have the bailouts of corporate America everywhere you can see. Airlines are merging, Bear Stearns got $42 billion or more to bail them out, and yet my good friends on the other side of the aisle are not interested in having us do things that the President wants us to do. 
   He wants us to have, if you will, the government sponsored enterprise reform. He wants us to fix Freddie Mac. He wants us to fix Fannie Mae. He wants to make sure that we provide for disabled veterans. He wants us to be able to invest in the important housing matters, and he wants to make sure that we put Americans back in their houses and put them right side up. 
   We're not in a recession; we're moving towards a 1929 depression. And I don't know why the other side cannot wake up. This is a good rule for a good bill. 
   As we make this march toward passing this legislation, I hope that we will also include that those who have lost good credit ratings because they suffered a foreclosure will be able to get back into the good credit rating by being eligible for these programs. Let us not punish those that fell victim to foreclosure because of unscrupulous practices that we're fighting against and their credit score went down to keep them from getting another house. Let's make sure we work that out. That is an idea and an amendment that I have, and I look forward to working with the committee so that as we move forward, we can get this done. 
   Again, if you can bail out Tom, Dick and Harry, you can at least bail out Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Smith and Mr. Garcia, because these are the hardworking Americans. I stand with them. 
   Let them stand with the big, rich guys all the time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 3221, FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1175, the Rule Providing for Consideration of H.R. 3221, the ``American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008.'' 
   I am pleased to support this much needed Housing and Urban Development legislation, to help States purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed homes to stabilize as many properties as possible. 
   All Americans--homeowners, lenders, communities--indeed our entire economy is worse off when a foreclosure occurs and when significant quantities of homes are foreclosed in a short amount of time. 
   H.R. 3221 responds directly to the current crisis facing middle class Americans while providing the tools to prevent a repeat of these problems. Modernizing the FHA and reforming the Government Sponsored Entities, GSEs, will provide crucial liquidity to our mortgage markets now, and also strengthen regulation and oversight for the future. 
   This legislation will begin to repair not bailout the economy, restoring confidence in the markets, limiting the damage to families and neighborhoods, and rejuvenating the communities with new affordable housing. 
   TEXAS 
   There are five steps in the foreclosure process: Step 1: delinquency; Step 2: Notice to cure, where the lender notifies borrower of delinquency and gives him 20 days to amend the problem; Step 3: Default notice and posting--in Texas, foreclosure sales occur on the first Tuesday of the month; Step 4: Foreclosure sale--if borrower is unable to cure default, the property is sold; and Step 5: Active foreclosure. 
   While there are five steps there are only two stages: Preforeclosure and active foreclosure. In looking at those two stages we see where Texas stands. Last year, Texas ranks fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in preforeclosures. Active foreclosures are foreclosed properties sold at auction and now in the lenders' real estate owned accounts. Texas held the top seat in 2007 for active foreclosures. While being number one is something Texans usually strive for, in this case we'd prefer to be much farther down the list. 
   Texas reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, a 16 percent increase from the previous month and the most foreclosure filings reported by any State. The State documented the Nation's third highest State combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 households. 
   Dallas County documented the most new foreclosure filings of any county in the region and a foreclosure rate of one foreclosure filing for every 320 households, an 18 percent increase from the previous month. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 3221, FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentleman and I thank him for his leadership. 
   We will address the question of our differences when we vote and when I review the transcript, but I think it's important to note that my words spoke directly to conditions that we're in, that is, a recession that might move toward a depression. 
   And I thank the gentleman from Georgia who mentioned from the Joint Economic Committee, Americans have much of their savings in their homes. Families in a majority of States will lose more than $2.6 trillion. That sounds like a recession and a depression to me. 
   A housing crisis affects the broader economy. We're going to be losing $166 billion in foreclosures. We have got to act. 
   And so we may have a difference, but there is no lying or untruth when we talk about a recession and a depression, and I know my good friend from Texas did not intend to misrepresent that those of us who have a difference of opinion, while we're on this floor to help save the homes of millions of Americans and to help provide engine to the economic activity, are wrong. 
   We're right and the documentation shows it, and it is not an untruth, and it certainly is not a lie. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FORECLOSURES AND CONSUMER CONFIDENCE -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today, we were discussing very important legislative initiatives dealing with the Neighborhood Stabilization Act that would give $15 billion to reclaim foreclosed homes, and an important legislative initiative, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act that would revise a number of the GSEs like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, all to help the American people. 
   In my discussion on the floor of the House, I indicated that we are moving  toward a recession and a depression. The gentleman who was then managing the rule, H. Res. 1175, indicated that we as Democrats must stop telling untruths. To that I asked the gentleman whether or not he was calling me a liar. 
   I wish to read into the Record that when that inquiry was made, the gentleman responded, as I said, I assume that he was not suggesting that I am a liar. The gentleman said ``I did not suggest that at all.'' 
   It is important to note that America is suffering. Between 7,000 and 8,000 people a day are filing for foreclosures and that consumer confidence is down. We are moving toward a recession and maybe a depression. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5818, NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1174, the Rule Providing for Consideration of H.R. 5818, the ``Neighborhood Stabilization Act of 2008'', introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters, of California. I would also like to thank Chairman Barney Frank for his leadership on the Financial Services Committee. 
   As evidenced by the numerous housing and financial services bills introduced this Congress, we are in economic turmoil. I have been concerned over recent developments in the housing and mortgage markets and worked with my colleagues to ensure that not only are my constituents' needs addressed but that all Americans are able to get relief. 
   Bills such as H.R. 3019, the Expand and Preserve Home Ownership Through Counseling Act by Congresswoman Judy Biggert, and H.R. 3666, the Foreclosure Prevention and Home Ownership Protection Act by Congresswoman Betty Sutton, include sections that speak specifically about foreclosures. These bills would authorize studies on current defaults and foreclosures, as well as possible causes. 
   I am pleased to support this much needed legislation from fellow Congressional Black Caucus member, Congresswoman Maxine Waters. H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood Stabilization Act of 2008, establishes a loan and grant program, administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to help States purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed homes to stabilize as many properties as possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have been unavoidably detained and away on official business on a number of rollcalls which I would like to place in the Record at this time. 
   In particular, I'd like to take note of December 5, 2007. Due to the tragic death of Reserve Deputy Constable Odom in my district, I was attending his funeral. On rollcall vote No. 1127, if I was present, I would have voted ``no.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 1128, I would have voted ``no.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 1129, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 1130, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 1131, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 1132, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   And Rollcall No. 1133, I would have voted ``aye.'' That is on December 5, 2007. 
   For September 20, 2007, on rollcall vote 890, I would have voted ``aye''; No. 889, I would have voted ``no.'' 
   On rollcall vote No. 888, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 887, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   And on rollcall No. 886, a motion to adjourn, I would have voted ``no.'' 
   On July 16, 2007, rollcall vote No. 632, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 631, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Rollcall vote No. 630, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MAKING AMERICA ENERGY INDEPENDENT -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, all of us are interested in moving this country forward on a defined energy policy. And we had, just an hour ago, an open debate on how we could move America forward. I'm delighted that part of the effort in the legislation just passed by this House emphasized new CAFE standards so that there can be greater mileage on vehicles that Americans may purchase, and, yes, a lowering of the cost of gasoline, but also a lowering of the utilization of gas by getting greater mileage; compromise between the energy industry and, of course, those who make automobiles in Detroit. 
   In addition are the emphasis on alternative fuels, the research to help us expand greening of America and the emphasis on creating new jobs and looking at alternative fuels. But I also believe that we must focus on the existence of fossil fuels, oil and gas, and be able to develop oil and gas domestically, particularly, in the gulf region. And so I hope that we will expand that debate as we go forward in making America independent as relates to energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DRILL RESPONSIBLY IN LEASED LANDS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from the great State of West Virginia, I thank you for your leadership. 
   Mr. Chairman, speaking of history, I just want to make mention of the fact that we have many Americans that care for it. 
   I am delighted that some 23,000 women from Alpha Kappa Alpha are here, Americans who are believing in their government and asking for change and asking for the leadership that is here on the floor of the House. To them, I believe we have an obligation to all Americans. It's important to know that I come from oil country. I represent large numbers of energy companies in the City of Houston. I practiced oil and gas law and have the experience of stripper-well legislation or litigation, if you will, worked on take-or-pay and curtailment. 
   I know very well about the Alaskan pipeline because it was being worked on in the 1970s, so we do have a right in this legislation, H.R. 6515, to ask that the Alaskan pipeline for natural gas for Americans be utilized, be put in place. It might be time now to declare a national emergency and take control of that pipeline and get it working. 
   But what this bill stands for is for working men and women, families. What it says is we are simply asking for due diligence, and that is to come to the National Petroleum Reserve and go ahead and acknowledge the fact that there are 22.6 million acres that can be leased. Only 3 million acres have been leased, and only 25 exploratory wells have been drilled. 
   We are simply saying that this is part of the larger piece, the drilling off the gulf of Texas and Louisiana, of which we in those areas applaud and salute. They have been done environmentally safely. 
   I ask the energy companies, of whom I am inviting to sit down in Houston in a roundtable and begin to engage in the process of doing what the building trades have said. Let us address the question of affordable energy and national security. This is a national security issue. 
   The question has to be if we have Federal lands, we need to be able to drill. This legislation says so. We need to be able to have due diligence, and we need to come together to provide the kind of energy policy that is for national security. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFFORDABLE ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Today, Mr. Speaker, we addressed an enormously important issue, and that is how to give relief to the American people on these soaring energy prices, small businesses, teachers and bus drivers, families who are carpooling, others who are trying to get to work. We owe them our collective minds to be able to ensure that we have a combined philosophy and program as it addresses the question of affordable energy and protecting our national security. 
   So I do believe there is a right way of drilling. I do believe we should go into the National Petroleum Reserve, and frankly I believe we should release gallons of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve so the American people can have immediate relief. I also think it is extremely important that we conserve, and we look at solar and wind. 
   And as it relates to the 23 million leases that are there, only 3 million are used, let us delegate from those who may own them, let us set aside some opportunity for minority and women-owned businesses and small businesses to be able to engage in that. Let's have a collective effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chair, I thank the distinguished manager and I thank the distinguished speaker, and as well, GEORGE MILLER, the chairman of the Education Committee, for his statement he made just a few weeks ago, how he had seen an absence of recognition of middle class workers in America being addressed in his committee and he was going to address it. 
   I want my friends to know that the first amendment guarantees the right to freedom of association. That is what the Employee Free Choice Act does in H.R. 800. 
   Let me thank the president of my local union AFL-CIO, Mr. Wortham, the Secretary/Treasurer of the AFL-CIO, Mr. Shaw and SEIU because I want them to know that my presence with them in the janitorial organizational effort over the last couple of weeks reinforced the importance of this Employee Free Choice Act. 
   My standing with the old PACE union in front of energy refineries years ago reinforces the need of the Employee Free Choice Act. It is a simple process. All it does is it allows individuals to form unions and to engage in collective bargainig. Without this protection, many union organizers and members would be fired. 
   I thank the distinguished gentleman, and I ask that this legislation be supported, because middle-class working America deserves this protection.  
   Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support, and as a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 800, the Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA). I support this bill because despite several years of economic growth and high corporate profits, middle- and working-class families like the ones I represent in Houston have actually lost ground. They are squeezed between shrinking or stagnating incomes and rising costs for the basic necessities of modern life such as education, health care, transportation, food, and housing. One of the most effective and practical ways of reversing this undesirable trend is to restore the freedom of workers to join together to bargain collectively for better wages, benefits, and working conditions. 
   Madam Chairman, on average, workers who belong to a union earn 30 percent more than nonunion workers. Members of unions, on average, receive 15 days of paid vacation annually, which is almost 50 percent more than their nonunion counterparts. Union members also fare better when it comes to health care: 80 percent of union members have employer-provided health care; only 49 percent of non-union workers have the same benefit. And, perhaps most important of all, workers who belong to a union earn on average 30 percent more than nonunion workers. 
   Madam Chairman, no group or association deserves more credit than organized labor and the trade union movement for the creation and rise of the American middle class, the 5-day work week, the 40-hour work week, the existence of employee pension plans, and many of the other employment benefits which we take for granted today. 
   The right to form a union is a fundamental human right and an essential element of a free and democratic society. But today, the right to organize and bargain collectively, protections that the National Labor Relations Act was enacted in 1935 to protect, have been so weakened that immediate action is needed to restore them. 
   The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) was enacted in 1935 to protect the rights of workers to join unions and to bargain collectively with their employers. Unfortunately, over the years these rights have been dramatically eroded because of aggressive and intimidating employer anti-union campaigns, ineffective NLRA penalties for employers who violate worker rights, and lengthy employer appeals of National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) cases in the courts. As a result, it is now increasingly uncommon for workers to successfully organize by going through an NLRB-conducted election. When workers do choose to be represented by a union, moreover, employers use a variety of legal and illegal tactics to keep the union from obtaining a first contract. 
   H.R. 800 will help restore the worker protections in the NLRA by: (1) requiring employers to bargain with a union when a majority of workers sign valid authorization cards; (2) providing for mediation and arbitration for a first contract; and (3) increasing penalties for employer violations of the NLRA. I support each of these provisions.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEFINING EARMARKS -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, again, thank you for the leadership given today and yesterday by Speaker Pelosi and the House leadership for putting us on the right course. And it is interesting to listen to my good friends, and they are good friends, who are on the other side of the aisle and to listen to the conversation on the Nation's headline stations about the commitment Democrats have made to come to work. And we are delighted that in the last couple of votes we saw almost unanimous votes as relates to our open government. 
   But let me, as a Member who comes from a district that depends a lot on the interests and concern of this Congress about issues of empowerment of nonprofits and charitable organizations who struggle every day to mentor children, to provide economic empowerment. Sometimes they provide assistance where government cannot. And they are the recipients of earmarks. And I think it is important that we define earmarks so that the maligning that has occurred because of some inappropriate use of earmarks really doesn't hide the value of allowing these tax dollars to go back, not through government bureaucracy but right to the people.     
   An example of that is the Texas Southern University Laboratory School, a school that is placed in a public housing complex that educates the children and other surrounding children in that neighborhood in a progressive and op-educational system, so much so that their test scores have excelled beyond public school. It is, in fact, formerly a school that had been embraced by the public school system, and now has been spun off to Texas Southern University, a teaching college, and the housing authority. 
   We have an earmark, of which I am very proud to have all of the scrutiny that anyone might want, that would provide dollars to continue this interesting and provocative way of teaching our children so that inner city children, children that would be pegged as not being able to be creative, are actually passing their science tests, their math tests, and they rush to school because they have a lust for learning. That is an earmark.  
   What I believe in this bill has been passed on reform is transparency. And any day of the week, I would be willing to associate my name to track where these monies go and determine whether there are any special interests that come back to me. You will find a complete slate in this particular earmark. And all other earmarks as this bill will allow, we will be able to say this is what this earmark is for. It is not a special interest, it does not go back to give any individual Member any kind of advantage. 
   These earmarks are crucial, such as earmarks for the Northeast YMCA, that deals again in the far reaches of the 18th Congressional District but helps youngsters develop leadership skills; or the earmarks that go to public health clinics that will help create a greater opportunity for first-line health care for the elderly and working Americans in the working class. 
   Again, this should be a Congress not wracked with special interests but a Congress who really believes in the people who went out to vote in this last election. So I am proud to be associated with this lobbying reform that has as one of its key elements the right for the American people to know where their tax dollars are going. And any day that any one of us is fortunate enough to receive an earmark, you should have the ability to be able to review it. 
   Let me also say as we move forward into the 100 hours of legislation how proud I am to be part of the overall package. And let me say to those of you throughout the community who have had those kinds of questions, like one of the questions that I have been asked, when are we going to raise the minimum wage, let me respond to the small businesses who might say this is going to be an extraordinary burden. I would remind you that when we raised it in 1997, you survived. 
   It has been 10 years since we raised the minimum wage. Those individuals who receive an increase in the minimum wage are the consumers of America. They will be in your small stores in your neighborhoods. They will be in your small businesses. They will provide the backbone of your increased economic benefit. So we should not look to the increase in the minimum wage as undermining small businesses. It will not. It will create such an infusion of dollars and provide additional dollars of saving, even though it is a measured increase that it increases over a period of time. 
   What a difference it will make for those individuals supporting families, single parents, double parents, working families still on the minimum wage. What a difference it will make for them to have an opportunity to grab hold or to aspire some day in their life to the American Dream. We cannot continue to be this great country without having this opportunity. 
   As I close, Mr. Speaker, let me simply say the minimum wage is vital; as are the 9/11 Commission recommendations, finally to be able to secure America; and, lastly, I look forward to bringing to the floor what America has sent us here to do, which is to find a dignified way of bringing our soldiers home with dignity and respect, with a thank you for what they have done on the front lines of Iraq. That is the challenge for America. That is the challenge for those of us who have come in the majority this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RULES OF THE HOUSE -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Title III of H.R. 6, the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th Congress. With the adoption of this title, we begin to make good on our pledge to restore civility, open government, and honest leadership to the House of Representatives. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is critically important that we adopt the civility rules contained in Title III because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq for Administration cronies.  
   But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into signed conference reports in the dead of night. 
   The American people registered their disgust at this terrible way of considering and voting on legislation last November and voted for reform. House Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and won the majority. Restoring open government and honest leadership is one of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is why we have included Title III in the Rules of the House of Representative for the 110th Congress. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman SLAUGHTER and the members of the Rules Committee for their excellent work in preparing the rules package. The reforms contained in the package are necessary to ensure that all Members of Congress, each of whom is elected to represent the interests of nearly 600,000 constituents, have sufficient time to consider important legislation before casting an informed vote. The reforms we are considering also will discourage manipulation of the voting rules to alter the outcome of roll call votes. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support the elements of the civility package, which (1) prohibits holding votes open for the sole purpose of affecting the outcome; and (2) reforms the conference committee process by requiring adequate notice of meetings, ensuring information is available to all conferees, and prohibiting changes to the text of signed conference reports. 
   Mr. Speaker, under the previous House Republican leadership, several votes were held open for hours in order to change the outcome. The most notable example was the November 2003 vote on the conference report on Medicare legislation (PL 108-173) that was held open for two hours and 53 minutes, the longest recorded vote since electronic voting began in 1973. After the expiration of the 15 minute time limit, the measure lost 216 to 218. But the vote was held open hours to afford House Republican leaders, the president, and the Health and Human Services Department, enough time to lobby enough Republican members to change their votes, or cast votes, in favor of the measure, eventually achieving a majority of 220 to 215. This kind of unfair manipulation of the rules would not take place under the voting rules package we are considering today. 
   With respect to Conference Reports, the rules package we consider today includes provisions intended to ensure that conferees have notice of conference meetings and the opportunity to participate, as well as to prevent the insertion of material into a conference agreement after the conferees have completed their work but before the House votes on the measure. These new rules also require House managers to ensure that conference meetings occur under circumstances that allow every House conferee to have notice of the meetings and reasonable opportunities to attend. Under the prior Republican leadership, Democratic conferees frequently were not invited to meetings of conferees, which prevented U.S. from having a meaningful role in crafting an agreement. 
   The rules also require conferees to ensure that all provisions on which the House and Senate have disagreed be considered open to discussion at any meeting of the conference committee. Additionally, House conferees will be required to ensure that papers reflecting a conference agreement are held ``inviolate to change,'' unless there is a renewal of the opportunity of all House managers to reconsider their decision to sign or not to sign the agreement. This change is designed to prevent material from being inserted into a conference agreement after conferees have ``closed'' the measure. In this connection, the new reforms requires that House managers be provided with a single time and place, with access to at least one complete copy of the final conference agreement, for the purpose of recording their approval, or lack of approval, on the signature sheets that accompany the conference report and the joint statement of managers. 
   Last, the new reforms bar the House from considering a conference report if the text differs materially, except clerical changes, from the text that reflects the action of the conferees when they signed the conference agreement. 
   Mr. Speaker, to restore public confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most responsive Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last six years by putting the needs of the American people ahead of partisan political advantage. To do that, we must start by adopting by Title III of H.R. 6, the civility reforms to the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RULES OF THE HOUSE -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of Title IV of H.R. 6, the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th Congress. With the adoption of this title, we begin to make good on our pledge to restore fiscal responsibility, open government, and honest leadership to the House of Representatives. 
   Madam Speaker, it is critically important that we adopt the ``pay as you go'' or ``paygo'' rules contained in Title IV. We must restore budget discipline with no new deficit spending as the first step to reversing record budget deficits that are passing trillions in debt on to our children and grandchildren. We must also amend House rules to require full transparency in order to begin to end the abuse of special interest earmarks. 
   Madam Speaker, the Bush Administration has turned a projected 10-year $5.6 billion surplus into a nearly $3 trillion deficit. Under this Administration, America's debt has climbed 50 percent to more than $28,000 per person, and the United States has borrowed more from foreign nations than the previous 42 U.S. presidents combined. Rising interest rates caused by Bush deficits cost middle-class families as much as $1,700 a year on credit card and mortgage payments, with interest payments on the debt becoming one of the fastest growing categories of spending in the federal budget. 
   Madam Speaker, pay-as-you-go was the law of the land from 1990 until 2002, paving the way for a balanced budget in the late 1990s, four years of budget surpluses, and bringing down the national debt by $453 billion. 
   Forty-two percent of the American public says reducing the deficit should be a top priority. On November 5, 1990, President George H.W. Bush signed a deficit reduction bill imposing pay-as you-go discipline in a bipartisan deal supported by 47 House Republicans and 19 Senate Republicans. Republicans such as former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Senator John McCain support pay-as-you-go budgeting. It is supported by the Concord Coalition, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, and the Committee for Economic Development. 
   Madam Speaker, earmark reform is needed to bring transparency and accountability for special projects. The status quo has permitted some Members of Congress, with no transparency and accountability, to provide favors to special friends through earmarked special projects--putting special interests ahead of the public interest. The American people deserve to know who is sponsoring earmarks to begin to stop the cases of flagrant abuse of earmarks. 
   The number of earmarks has exploded under the Republicans, climbing from 3,023 in FY 1996 to 13,012 in FY 2006, and the lack of transparency and accountability has led to problems--of which Rep. Cunningham is an example. Former Representative Duke Cunningham pleaded guilty to accepting bribes from defense contractors in return for his help in securing defense contracts. 
   The Democratic reform package will amend House rules to clearly define what constitutes an earmark, along with its proper use. Specifically, the package will prohibit earmarks that personally benefit Members and their spouses.  Earmark reform under Democrats will ban earmarks that benefit lobbyists who chair a Member's Political Action Committee. 
   Madam Speaker, to restore public confidence in this institution, we must commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most responsive, most fiscally responsible Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last six years by putting the needs of the American people ahead of partisan political advantage. To do that, we must start by adopting Title III of H.R. 6, the fiscal responsibility reforms to the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5749, Emergency Extended Unemployment Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague Representative MCDERMOTT. This important legislation will provide much-needed relief to 3.8 million unemployed workers who are besieged to cope with rapidly rising gas and food costs, while they continue to struggle to find work in the slowing economy. 
   Democrats in Congress have pushed to extend unemployment benefits since the beginning of the year, as the economy weakened, but have faced continued resistance from the Bush Administration. Today, the House will take up H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act on the suspension calendar. The legislation would immediately provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. For states with especially high unemployment rates, an additional 13 weeks would be offered, bringing the total to 26 weeks of extended benefits. 
   The need for action is clear. For the fifth straight month, the economy lost jobs and unemployment rose from 5.0 percent in April to 5.5 percent in May, with 49,000 jobs lost in May alone. The economy has lost nearly 325,000 jobs this year and 3.8 million Americans are unemployed. These grim statistics are yet another signal that the Bush Administration's economic policies have failed the American people. Americans are now facing higher costs for basic necessities, unemployment is up, millions of families have lost their homes or value in their homes due to the housing crisis, and 7 million more Americans are uninsured. 
   Extending unemployment benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in new economic demand. Unfortunately, President Bush and some Republicans oppose our effort to help unemployed workers and to get our economy moving again. Instead, they want more of the same. 
   Middle class families can't afford four more years of the kind of policies that have weakened our economy and left hundreds of thousands of Americans looking for work and struggling to make ends meet. We hope the President and his Republican allies will change course and work with us to assist unemployed workers. Today, gas prices hit an average of $4.05 per gallon, a new historic high. The price of a barrel of oil increased more on Friday, in 
   one single day, than a barrel cost a decade ago, before George W. Bush became President. Even in the face of these record increases, Senate Republicans blocked consideration of the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008. The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008 passed the House, and would retain and create hundreds of thousands of green energy jobs. Experts estimate biofuel blends are keeping gas prices about 15 percent lower than they otherwise would be now--and the energy law increases our commitment to these and other American-grown biofuels. 
   While Democrats are taking action to lessen our dependence on foreign oil and lower prices, Republicans continue to repeat the same old rhetoric: continued calling for drilling in ANWR, even though the Department of Energy has concluded that opening up the Arctic for drilling would not reduce the price of a gallon of gasoline until 20 years from now--and then only by about 1 penny. Since 2000, drilling has increased dramatically--climbing about 66 percent--while gas prices continue to increase. Additionally, the federal government has already opened up leases to 68 million acres of federal land that oil companies aren't even tapping. 
   From day one, the New Direction Congress has been fighting to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, bring down record gas prices, and launch a cleaner, smarter energy future for America that lowers costs and creates hundreds of thousands of green jobs. Democrats in Congress have already taken action to bring down the price of gas, passing legislation to suspend the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, SPR, starting June 30th and going through the end of the year. The House also approved the Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act of 2008. The legislation gives U.S. authorities the ability to prosecute anticompetitive conduct committed by international cartels like OPEC that restricts supply and drives up prices. The House also continues to build on the work of the Energy Independence and Security Act which will transition the American economy to more efficient vehicles and reduce our dependence on foreign fuels. 
   I am proud to support this important legislation that will address the economic needs of the American people, and I urge my colleagues to join in so doing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairman of the committee. It's really good to be with him, in spite of holding us over. We are still here fighting the good fight. 
   Chairman Gordon, thank you for your leadership and the work that you've done, of course, with the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Udall, and my very dear colleague, who has been an advocate, Congressman Nick Lampson, who has worked closely on this issue, to the ranking member, Mr. Hall, and of course the ranking members on the respective committees. I rise today to enthusiastically support this legislation dealing with NASA's authorization. 
   I was reflecting on the history of authorization, and the committee should be commended. This is not a very easy task to get an authorization bill out, and we have done so. And I'm very proud that this Congress, this Democratic Congress has done so. 
   Today's legislation will allow NASA to continue to push the boundaries of what is possible, keeping our Nation on the forefront of innovation and exploration. After the Columbia disaster, NASA stands at a pivotal moment in its history. It is the responsibility of this Congress to ensure that the future of NASA is one of continued progress. Our children depend on us to do this. 
   Space exploration remains part of our national destiny. Knowing the cutting edge of technology, the research on HIV/AIDS, on stroke, on heart disease, on cancer, all of this has occurred through NASA exploration and the International Space Station. It inspires our children to look at the stars and dream of what they, too, one day may achieve. 
   Space exploration allows us to push the bounds of our scientific knowledge as we carry out research projects not possible within the constraints of the planet Earth. Just an anecdote, when I have an annual Christmas party of 3,000 children, the astronauts that come are more popular than Santa Claus. That should be the test for continuing this wonderful effort to ensure that America always stands at the forefront of innovativeness.     
   As a Nation, we have made tremendous strides forward in the pursuit of space exploration since President John F. Kennedy set the course for our Nation in 1962 calling it the ``greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked.'' Despite the setbacks of recent years, including the tragedy that befell the Space Shuttles Columbia and Challenger, NASA and the American people have refused to abandon the pursuit of knowledge of our universe. On October 1, 1958, NASA began its operation. It consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million, but it is now in its 50th year, and we are going further. 
   President Kennedy in 1961 said, ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to Earth.'' 
   Believe it not, we have now had men going into space, and we have just recently had the fiftieth woman going into space. This is an important challenge. And this legislation today provides us with an opportunity to save the 18,000 employees and to begin to look to a funding system that will continue our journey. 
   H.R. 6063 is addressing serious concerns. Between 2010, when the space shuttle will be phased out, and 2015 when the next generation human space flight is likely to become operational, the United States will have no method of transportation to the space station that we have already invested in. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. With this legislation, we are going to deliver important hardware, the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer, through an additional extension. The bill also authorizes $1 billion in augmented funding to accelerate the development of the Orion Crew Exploration Vehicle, the successor to the space shuttle, in hopes of narrowing the gap. 
   We are also allowing one more shuttle trip for the space shuttle. This is helpful to Johnson. We don't want to  lose jobs. We want to support this effort. And we may want to reconsider, as we go forward, the retiring of the space shuttle. 
   Let me thank the committee for supporting, as well, my small business amendment that addresses the question of giving training, technological training, to veterans-owned businesses, to HUB businesses, to women-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses so they can be part of the cutting edge of science. 
   I conclude simply by saying that President Kennedy set the mark. I am glad this committee and this Congress is carrying the torch. We must continue space exploration. It is our duty. It is our challenge. It is our obligation as patriots. And it is for the future of our children. On with the space. This legislation gets us there.  
   Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6063, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2008. As we mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the United States space program, this legislation reaffirms the ever growing and changing role of NASA, providing resources to carry the agency forward with its ambitious agenda of research, exploration, and discovery. I would like to thank Congressman Udall for introducing this important legislation, as well as Science Committee Chairman Gordon for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
   I would also like to thank Chairman Gordon for his support of an amendment that I am offering. My amendment modifies section 1108 of the bill, and it states:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5749, EMERGENCY EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I want to remind my good friends that yesterday we were on the floor of the House and my good friends on the other side of the aisle, the Republican minority, blocked the passage of this emergency relief to so many Americans. And I rose yesterday and I asked the question, Who will be a Good Samaritan and stand with those who are in need? 
   Right now, soldiers on the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan have family members who are unemployed and who have exhausted their benefits. What do we say to them? In Texas, we have a total of 160,000 Texans who have now either exhausted or will exhaust their unemployment benefits. They do so in an economy where they've lost their jobs through no fault of their own. 
   That's why we put this bill on the floor of the House because you could have gone to a job, worked for a week, and the business closed down because of varying economic crises created by this administration. 
   We've lost--324,000 jobs have disappeared over this period of time, 5 consecutive months. We've lost 300,000-plus job. And the unemployment rose to the highest in the month of May. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5749, EMERGENCY EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The highest number of unemployment in 20 years in the month of May, and over the last 12 months, the number of unemployed workers have grown by 1.6 million, 200,000 more long-term jobless. 
   Who will be the Good Samaritan for the American people who have helped build this country? Who will tell the Iraqi soldiers and Afghanistan soldiers that the mother and father that is there longing for their return does not have a job and cannot pay for gasoline and rent and food? We have to stand today. Who will be the Good Samaritans? 
   This legislation is written the way it is to solve the problems of Americans. I will stand with them. 
   I ask you to support the underlying legislation and the rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, let me thank the committee, both the ranking member, Mr. Hall, and the chairman of the full committee, as well as the subcommittee chairs and ranking members. 
   It is a pleasure to have had the honor and privilege of serving on the Science Committee for a number of years and to congratulate them for its very important work. I believe the Science Committee, as I've indicated, creates the work of the 21st century: science and technology and research. 
   My amendment has a very simple premise, and it is an amendment to the program of which Mr. Lampson of Texas has created that is part of the Innovative Partnerships Program that NASA's had for a very long time.  
   The amendment clarifies that the NASA Outreach and Technology Assistance Program will include small, minority-owned and women-owned businesses. But as well, it specifically focuses on small business concerns owned and controlled, which is part of the existing law, by service-disabled veterans and HUBZone small business concerns. So this will be added to small businesses. What better way to ensure diversity than to ensure that our returning veterans, service-disabled, have the further opportunity of participating in this program. 
   And Madam Chairman, let me share with you how vital small businesses are, no matter where they are. First of all, small firms represent 99.7 percent of all employer firms. They employ about half of all private sector employees. They pay more than 45 percent of the total U.S. payroll, and in 2006, we believe there were 26.8 million businesses. 
   When you speak to veterans, it seems that it's their cup of tea. They're independent, they're resilient, and yes, they've fought a war. And so, there's given emphasis in selection of the businesses to participate in this technology and outreach program to socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns, and as I indicated, to service-disabled veterans and HUBZone small businesses. 
   The interesting part of this effort, of course, is the very backbone of our economy will get the opportunity to benefit from the strength of this great NASA program. 
   And the full committee has been very fair in the dollars that they've put in science and research and the space exploration program, and this, of course, would provide an opportunity for our small businesses to be right in the middle. 
   I believe that science and technology creates the work of the 21st century, and for that reason, this program and its ability to reach out to these small businesses is a plus for us. They will include the opportunity to hire people who have that technology training. They will reach out to various universities, Hispanic-serving and historically black colleges and other colleges around the Nation, to get the employees that will work in these small firms, and they'll have the technological training that is so important. 
   I hope my colleagues will support this and continue to support the opportunity for outreach, particularly as it creates jobs and interests and commitment to the NASA mentality and the NASA technology, and it puts America on the cutting edge. 
   I reserve my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I'm glad the gentleman asked the question, and the gentleman is right in terms of the positive and not the negative. It is ``and,'' it is including. It is to indicate that if these businesses are around, reach out to them. 
   And again, this does not impact any contracts of NASA. It only impacts the access to this outreach program, and to have small businesses, if a small business is there, they're there. But to ensure that others are aware of the program and can participate in it. 
   And of course, it just adds that those who will be part of the outreach will be women-owned, will be HUBZone businesses, and will also be disabled veterans, many of whom are returning back to the country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I want to again reaffirm to the gentleman that this does not impact contracts. This only impacts the ability to participate in getting technical assistance and accessing the wisdom and the expertise of NASA. 
   In addition, the language is small, comma, and then it goes on. So no one is replaced. It is simply adding a list and saying, don't forget this list as well. It will not replace anyone, and it will not replace anyone or require a small contractor to replace or be replaced, if you will. It is all about technical training and assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If I might simply close and thank the distinguished gentleman, Mr. Feeney, for his inquiries and, as well, his clarification. 
   And with that, I would indicate that this is a reemphasis of how important small businesses are, accessing technical assistance, and I would ask my colleagues to support the Jackson-Lee amendment dealing with expanding opportunities to socially and disadvantaged businesses and, of course, returning veterans and other HUBZones. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this amendment for technical assistance.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA REAUTHORIZATION BILL -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we just finished a historic debate for historic legislation, H.R. 6063, and I look forward to my colleagues enthusiastically supporting the NASA Reauthorization Bill. 
   Let me highlight what this bill will generate for science in America. Funding for science will be some $4.932 billion. Aeronautics will be $853 million. Space exploration will be $3.886 billion. Education will be $128 million. Space operations will be some $6 billion. Cross-Agency Support Programs, some $3 billion. And Inspector General, which is very important to ensure the integrity of the program, some $35 million. This is an investment not for this Congress, but for America, and that is why this debate is so important. 
   As we move this bill forward, I am very pleased that this body supported my amendment. And I wanted to ensure that we had record clarity to know that this amendment was worked on by the Science Committee and the Small Business Administration Committee, and was timely submitted to the Rules Committee and, as well, was, if you will, approved by the Rules Committee. And I was very pleased to have this listed as an approved amendment in the structured rule process. 
   And so all is well now that this amendment has been passed and that this bill now has been passed, if you will, out of this body. And of course there will be votes to finalize the passage of the bill.  
   Let me move now, just very briefly, to add my deep sympathy to Americans who have experienced the tragedy of untimely and precipitous weather. This, I think, will be the most remarkable weather season that we may have experienced in a couple of years. Tornados are hitting Americans and floods all over the Nation. Many of our colleagues are absent because of the tragedy occurring in their respective districts. This further emphasizes, of course, the work that we do here, but nothing can give solace to those who have lost family members. 
   As a member of the Board of the Sam Houston Area Council Boy Scouts of America, I offer my deepest sympathy to the Boy Scouts who lost their lives in Iowa, and to their Member of Congress and to the families there. Let me also cite the brave young men who were involved in protecting others and providing first aid. It shows what kind of character and integrity is built for those who are in the Boy Scouts. And we offer to them our deepest sympathy. We know that the national Boy Scouts are mourning, and Boy Scouts across America. But as they mourn, let us also pay tribute to those who rose and showed themselves well as they sought to help those who could not help themselves. 
   Again, our sympathy to the Boy Scouts of America, to the Boy Scouts of Iowa, and certainly to the families of those who lost their lives in the last 24 to 48 hours, and those Americans who are also in the face of these tragic, terrible natural disasters, and who have suffered personal loss, property loss, and certainly the loss of loved ones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEVELOPING A COMPREHENSIVE REGIONAL STRATEGY IN CHAD AND DARFUR -- (House of Representatives - May 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong support for H. Res. 1011, calling on the United States Government and the international community to promptly develop, fund, and implement a comprehensive regional strategy to protect civilians, facilitate humanitarian operations, contain and reduce violence, and contribute to conditions for sustainable peace and good governance in Chad, as well as in the wider region that includes the northern region of the Central African Republic and the Darfur region of Sudan, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Virginia, Representative WOLF. This timely and important legislation, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor, not only calls on the governments of Chad and the Central African Republic to fulfill their obligations under international law to protect civilians, but also calls upon the President of the United States to continue humanitarian assistance to refugees and internally displaced persons in the region. 
   While regional conflicts have proven substantive and continuous, the internal politics of Chad are by no means a beacon of stability and democracy. Since reaching independence in 1960, Chad has been consistently riddled with internal conflicts and civil wars. Unfortunately, despite American assistance to the government, the State Department reported that the last elections were, ``orderly, but seriously flawed,'' as well as stating in the most recent Department of State Country Report on Human Rights Practices that, ``the [Chadian] government's poor human rights record deteriorated further.'' The situation within Chad is even more precarious when one considers that the United Nations estimates that Chad is home to some 240,000 refugees from Darfur, 52,000 refugees from the Central African Republic, and more than 180,000 internally displaced people. In February 2008 alone, over 12,000 new refugees from Darfur entered the country. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the past three years, as fighting between the government and rebels increased, 180,000 Chadians have been displaced, adding to the inflow of 290,000 refugees from the Central African Republic (CAR) and Sudan's Darfur region. Although the government developed a plan for reform, and signed 
   a peace agreement with rebel groups in 2007, the conflict has not ceased. In February 2008, rebel forces, supported by the neighboring Sudanese government, sought to remove President Idriss D&#233;by from power, killing hundreds of civilians in the process. Despite the United Nation's Security Council Resolution 1778, authorizing a multidimensional presence intended to help create the security conditions necessary for reconstruction and social and economic development, this has not been the case. While the United States has provided over $338 million in humanitarian assistance since 2004 and also provides security assistance to the Chadian army through the International Military Education and Training (IMET) funds, there is still much more that needs to be done. 
   This resolution is both timely and imperative because it calls on the United States to work harder to develop and implement a sound strategy to protect and assist Chadians and other refugees, and, together with the international community, condemn Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir and the National Congress for their support of the armed rebellion. A further destabilization in Chad will lead to wider regional instability and hinder the United States' counter-terrorism capabilities in a very sensitive region. 
   By calling on the President of the United States to continue to provide humanitarian assistance to displaced persons in the Chad and the Central African Republic and provide support to strengthen the rule of law, democratic institutions, and respect for human rights, this legislation works to not only alleviate suffering in the short term, but also prevent them from occurring in the long term. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING BURMESE REGIME'S UNDEMOCRATIC CONSTITUTION -- (House of Representatives - May 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 317: Condemning Burma's Undemocratic Constitutional Referendum, introduced by my colleague Congressman Holt, which I am proud to cosponsor. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for bringing this important legislation to the floor today, as well as his ongoing leadership on this issue. 
   Last year, we witnessed the biggest protests in Burma since the popular uprising in 1988. Initially triggered by a sharp and unexpected increase in fuel, last September's protests, known as the Saffron Resolution, became a statement against the government attacks on Buddhist monks attending a peaceful protest in early September. Following the government's failure to apologize for these appalling actions, Burma's spiritual and nonviolent monks began protesting in large numbers. Burma's monks are highly revered, and have historically played a prominent role in political protests within the country. They form the social foundation of their nation, and it is extremely significant that tens of thousands of monks participated in the recent demonstrations. 
   The events of last September illustrated the Burmese military regime's ongoing repression of basic human rights. The military has, for many years, ignored the democratic aspirations of the Burmese people, perhaps best seen in the ongoing restrictions on prominent pro-democracy leader and Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, whose party won a landslide electoral victory in 1990 but has never been allowed to govern. In addition, the regime is squandering Burma's natural resources, with proceeds going to the military and its weapons, instead of to the people of Burma, the overwhelming majority of whom live in poverty. 
   Military-run enterprises continue to control key sectors of the Burmese economy, which, in general, is plagued by corruption, severe mismanagement, and a flourishing black market. Burma is the world's largest exporter of teak, as well as a principal source of jade, pearls, rubies, and sapphires. These resources, combined with extremely fertile soil and offshore oil and gas deposits, are spent in ways that only benefit the military elite why the vast bulk of the Burmese people are increasingly destitute. 
   Mr. Speaker, this repressive government is now planning a May 10th referendum, which will have the effect of institutionalizing these policies through a sham constitution. The military regime in Burma is attempting to give  democratic legitimacy to a process, controlled from start to finish by the Burmese military, which is anything but democratic. A true democracy benefits the people; this referendum will only benefit the Burmese military. 
   The legislation that we are considering today, H. Con. Res. 317, calls on the Administration, the United Nations, and the international community to support legitimate, inclusive dialogue between the regime and opposition forces. It denounces the regime's one-sided, undemocratic attempt to legalize military rule with the constitution and its related referendum, and insists that Burma's military regime begin a meaningful tri-partite dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi, winners of the 1990 election, and ethnic nationality representatives toward full restoration of democracy and internationally recognized human rights for all Burmese citizens. Further, it urges the President to call for the U.N. Security Council not to recognize the constitution and to pass a resolution instructing the Burmese regime to enter into meaningful dialogue, and to push for a comprehensive U.N. Security Council arms embargo against the Burmese military regime. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation is an unambiguous call for truly inclusive, tripartite dialogue. Burma possesses one of the most ancient, rich, and ethnically and religiously diverse cultures on earth. Like the indomitable Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader democratically elected to lead the nation in 1990 but who instead has been imprisoned for 12 of the last 18 years, the people of Burma are resilient and draw strength from their convictions and the diversity of their nation. Only through such international negotiation can we hope to put Burma back on the path to peace and prosperity. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important and timely legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF NATIONAL CARIBBEAN-AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I want to thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee for bringing recognition to a group often forgotten in this racial and ethnic melting pot known as America. 
   This legislation does more than recognize Caribbean-Americans or as many are called West Indians, it recognizes and celebrates diversity. Unfortunately, this country has not always celebrated its diverse roots. It has faltered at times in remembering that the differences can be celebrated as much as those things in which we share--like humanity, like faith in a higher power, like democracy. 
   Even now as I stand and address the House floor, I am reminded that we have yet to pass comprehensive immigration reform. We still watch the television and see commercials using words like illegal and alien, with people that are from our southern borders of Mexico or our coastal south like Haiti or Cuba. Sadly, these commercials prey on the fears of an America in an economic crisis. These commercials speak to fear of other cultures, other religions, and other ways of doing business. 
   What they do not show is the thousands upon thousands of new immigrants who make their home here and work from sun up to sun down to build a better tomorrow for their families. What the commercials do not speak to is the thousands of immigrants who come from our northern borders or from Europe. More importantly, these commercials do not speak to the foundation of one land made up of many. 
   This resolution reminds us that although many in this country were born elsewhere or have parents who were born elsewhere they are very much Americans. 
   Thank you, Congresswoman Lee, for reminding us to celebrate our diverse population by celebrating Caribbean-Americans. Each Caribbean country has shared her native children with these United States. From the classic actor and activist Sidney Poitier to the former Army general and Secretary of State Colin Powell, from the charismatic Celia Cruz to the hard-rocker Lenny Kravitz, and so many more--Caribbean-Americans honor both their past and their present. 
   Many of the Members on this very bill have parents or grandparents from the West Indies. Thank you for celebrating them and for celebrating what makes America beautiful--her diverse people. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to thank all of those who strive to see an America made up of a diverse group of people. Many of them have given up not only their country of birth but their loved ones, to cross into an unknown land to build a dream. Let their love for America not be doubted because they also celebrate their native Jamaica or Bahamas or Dominican Republic or Trinidad--let it be a lesson that you can love your past, while you celebrate your future. I urge my colleagues to support a resolution that is about the celebration of diversity.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (60TH ANNIVERSARY OF INTEGRATION OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, HASC Chairman IKE SKELTON submitted H. Con. Res. 377 last month to authorize the use of the Rotunda of the Capitol for a ceremony commemorating the 60th Anniversary of the beginning of the integration of the United States Armed Forces. Specifically, President Harry S. Truman signed Executive Order 9981 in 1948, which provided for equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national origin. 
   The resolution commemorating this event was overwhelmingly adopted by the House, with the Senate concurring, and tomorrow's ceremony is the result. Significant House leadership (bipartisan) is expected to attend, among them Speaker PELOSI, Leaders HOYER/BOEHNER, Chairman SKELTON and many Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. All U.S. Senators have been invited--Leaders REID and MCCONNELL have accepted; numerous Senators are also expected to be in attendance. Executive Branch invites were also extended. I would like to thank Congressman Elijah Cummings for leading this special order and for his leadership on this issue. 
   The integration of the armed forces was a momentous event in our military and national history; it represented a milestone in the development of the armed forces and the fulfillment of the democratic ideal. The existence of integrated rather than segregated armed forces is an important factor in our military establishment today. Also we must continue to promote the promotion to office for these minority soldiers and women soldiers. 
   The experiences in World War II and the postwar pressures generated by the civil rights movement compelled all the services--Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps--to reexamine their traditional practices of segregation. While there were differences in the ways that the services moved toward integration, all were subject to the same demands, fears, and prejudices and had the same need to use their resources in a more rational and economical way. All of them reached the same conclusion: traditional attitudes toward minorities must give way to democratic concepts of civil rights. 
   If the integration of the armed services now seems to have been inevitable in a democratic society, it nevertheless faced opposition that had to be overcome and problems that had to be solved through the combined efforts of political and civil rights leaders and civil and military officials. In many ways the military services were at the cutting edge in the struggle for racial equality. 
   The 60th anniversary of the integration of the U.S. armed forces reflects the quarter century that followed America's entry into World War II, beginning with reluctant inclusion of a few segregated ``Negroes'', to African-American service men and women's routine acceptance in a racially integrated military establishment. 
   In the name of equality of treatment and opportunity, the Department of Defense took a long time to adequately challenge racial injustices deeply rooted in American society. 
   Clearly, it was a practical answer to pressing political problems that had plagued several national administrations. In another, it was the services expression of those liberalizing tendencies that were pervading American society during the era of civil rights activism. 
   Sadly, just as Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke of affecting the establishment with financial boycotts because it was easier to change laws than to change hearts; to a considerable extent the policy of racial equality was more a response to the need for military efficiency than a belief in true equal opportunity. 
   Men like Walter F. White of the NAACP and the National Urban League's T. Arnold Hill sought to use World War II to expand opportunities for the black American. From the start they tried to translate the idealistic sentiment for democracy into widespread support for civil rights in the United States. 
   The became readily apparent during President Truman's years in the White House, that winning equality at home was just as important as advancing the cause of freedom abroad. As George S. Schuyler, a widely quoted African-American columnist put it: ``If nothing more comes out of this emergency (World War II) than the widespread understanding among White leaders that the Negro's loyalty is conditional, we shall not have suffered in vain.'' 
   The NAACP spelled out the challenge even more clearly in its monthly publication, The Crisis, which declared itself ``sorry for brutality, blood, and death among the peoples of Europe, just as we were sorry for China and Ethiopia. But the hysterical cries of the preachers of democracy for Europe leave us cold. We want democracy in Alabama, Arkansas, in Mississippi and Michigan, in the District of Columbia--in the Senate of the United States.'' 
   The administration began responding to these pressures before America entered World War II. At the urging of the White House the Army announced plans for the mobilization of African-Americans, and Congress amended several mobilization measures to define and increase the military training opportunities for African-Americans. 
   The most important of these legislative amendments in terms of influence on future race relations were made to the Selective Service Act of 1940. The matter of race played only a small part in the debate on this highly controversial legislation, but during congressional hearings on the bill African-Americans testified on discrimination against Negroes in the services. These witnesses concluded that if the draft law did not provide specific guarantees against it, discrimination would prevail. Luckily, Congress agreed. 
   On July 26, 1948, President Truman signed Executive Order 9981, ordering the racial integration of the Armed Forces, declaring that, ``there is equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national origin.'' The policy was to be put into effect, ``rapidly as possible, having due regard to the time required to effectuate any necessary changes without impairing efficiency or morale.'' 
   Unfortunately, the all-black 24th Infantry was the only black active duty regiment left intact after WorId War II. The 25th Infantry Regiment was also still on active duty, but its battalions were split and attached to various divisions to replace inactive or unfilled organic elements. The all-black 9th and 10th Cavalry Regiments were reactivated in 1950 as 
   separate tank battalions--keeping full integration still in the distant future. 
   In February 1946 The U.S. Navy published a circular letter making black sailors ``eligible for all types of assignments in all ratings in all activities and all ships of naval service. Yet it was a full 3 years later before the first military service group, the Air Force integrated under the executive order. 
   The true fulfillment of the entire scope of Executive Order 9981--equality of treatment and opportunity--actually required an additional change in Defense Department policy which did not occur until July 26, 1963, 15 years to the day after Truman signed the original order. 
   This major about-face in policy issued by Secretary of Defense Robert J. McNamara expanded the military's responsibility to include the elimination of off-base discrimination detrimental to the military effectiveness of black servicemen. 
   As of 2008, the Department of Defense has a total of 1,375,105 service members serving on active duty in the Armed Forces. Minorities serve in senior leadership positions throughout the Armed Forces, as commissioned, warrant and non-commissioned officers, evidence that the integration of the Armed Forces has enhanced the combat effectiveness of the military 60 years ago and still holds true today. 
   There have been more than 1,754,900 service members from this volunteer force that have fought in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation Enduring Freedom, of which more than 20 percent are minorities, evidence that the United States could not maintain an all-volunteer force without the service of and critical role played by minorities. 
   The Armed Forces has been lead in creating opportunities for no matter the national origin, religion nor race. Making equal opportunity not just a slogan but a way of life. It is a place where regularly minorities serve as leaders, companies, battalions, divisions. It also serves a great opportunity to grow morally, ethically, and professionally. 
   The United States Military Academy--West Point, (USMA) currently has the highest enrollment percentage (24.1 percent) of minorities  for graduating classes of 2007-2011. The United States Naval Academy (USNA) is at a close 22.7 percent and has seen a steady and consistent increase in enrollment of minorities well over 20 percent graduating classes of 2007-2011. 
   The USNA has the highest enrollment number for females (20 percent), with the USAFA close behind--19 percent. USMA has the highest number of African American enrollment, however it is important to note that the enrollment numbers for West Point are about 90-100 students more than the Naval Academy and about the same enrollment numbers for the Air Force. 
   Current Active Duty Flag Officer statistics throughout the Department of Defense: 
   .4-Star Generals, 1 is an African American (General ``Kip'' Ward) 
   .137 3-Star Generals, 8 are African American 
   .279 2-Star Generals, 17 are African American 
   .444 1-Star Generals, 24 are African American 
   .TOTAL: 899 General Officers, 40 are African American--4.4 percent of General Officers on Active Duty. 
   I am also lucky to serve with several Congressional Black Caucus Members that have served in our Armed Forces including: 
   .Charles Rangel (NY) Served in the Korean War in United States Army during the period of 1948-1952; Purple Heart and Bronze Star Recipient 
   .John Conyers Jr. (MI) Served in the United States Army during the Korean War 
   .Bobby Rush (1st IL) Served 5 years in the United States Army 
   .Edolphus Towns (10th NY) United States Army 
   .Robert ``Bobby'' Scott (3rd VA) United States Army 
   I am proud to stand here today and honor the many African-Americans, Hispanics, Asians, Europeans, and all the other ethnic groups that make up our armed forces. No matter their race or national origin they have but three things in common--their desire to champion the ideals of democracy, their willingness to give the ultimate sacrifice for their country, and their compelling devotion to duty.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MONEY SERVICE BUSINESS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4049, the Money Service Business Act. This Act eliminates the regulatory burdens imposed on insured depository institutions and money services business and enhances the availability of transaction accounts at depository institutions for such businesses, and for other purposes. I support this bill and I encourage my colleagues to do likewise. 
   Check cashers, money transmitters, and other legally authorized and regulated money transmitting businesses (also designated as money services businesses) provide a wide range of necessary financial services and products to customers from all walks of life, including the under-banked and urban communities. Those services include domestic and international funds transfers, check cashing, money order and traveler's checks sales, and electronic bill payments. 
   Regulatory guidance issued by, and expectations of, the Federal banking agencies and the Secretary of Treasury urge insured depository institutions to conduct reviews of money services businesses' anti-money laundering compliance programs, placing such depository institutions in the position of quasi-regulators. Consequently, many insured depository institutions have refused or closed money services businesses' accounts in order either not to incur the burden, risk or potential liability for undertaking a de facto regulatory function, or else to avoid supervisory sanctions for not exercising such oversight. This trend endangers the existence of legitimate, regulated money services businesses industry and the ability of such businesses to deliver financial services and products. Loss of depository institutions accounts by money services businesses threatens to drive the customer transactions of such businesses underground through unregulated channels, including bulk cash smuggling or other means. 
   It is critical to the interests of national security that transparency of money services business transactions be maintained by ensuring such businesses have a reasonable process to demonstrate to insured depository institutions the compliance by such businesses with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing obligations. Money services businesses are subject to Federal money laundering and terrorist financing control programs and reporting requirements as enforced by State and Federal regulators. These entities are authorized to conduct compliance oversight and to impose sanctions through licensing, registration or other powers. 
   These State and Federal regulators have committed to coordinate their supervision and enforcement of such money services business obligations. 
   Insured depository institutions and Federal banking regulators should be able to rely upon a regulatory process for conducting oversight of money services businesses' compliance. Accordingly, to eliminate regulatory burden imposed upon insured depository institutions and promote access by money services businesses to the banking system and to give full recognition to Federal and State agency authority to supervise and enforce money services businesses' compliance with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing obligations and their implementing regulations, it is appropriate and necessary to provide for self-certification process established pursuant to this Act. 
   I support this Act and encourage my colleagues to support it also.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LAW ENFORCEMENT CONGRESSIONAL BADGE OF BRAVERY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2565 to establish an awards mechanism to honor exceptional acts of bravery in the line of duty by Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers. This bill will provide a mechanism to honor exceptional acts of bravery in the line of duty by Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers. In sum this bill provides a mechanism to honor for their service and bravery. 
   There are more than 900,000 sworn law enforcement officers serving in the United States; the highest figure ever. On average, more than 56,000 law enforcement officers are assaulted each year, resulting in over 16,000 injuries with an average of 150 of those injuries sustained by Federal law enforcement officers. While members of the military receive the Purple Heart when wounded or killed, most Federal law enforcement officers receive no such commendation for their sacrifice. In fact, of the over 70 Federal agencies that employ Federal law enforcement agents, only two agencies award medals and commendations for physical injuries. 
   This must change. Both the military and our law enforcement officers protect the citizens of our great country every single day. If we can acknowledge the sacrifices made by the military, we can recognize those made by law enforcement. 
   It is time for all of our law enforcement officers to receive the recognition they deserve. This bill authorizes the Attorney General to award a Congressional Badge of Bravery to a Federal law enforcement officer who sustains a physical injury in the line of duty and to  award a State and Local Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery to a State or local law enforcement officer who is cited by the Attorney General for performing such an act of bravery while in the line of duty. 
   I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation and support the law enforcement community. I would also note that this bill has support from both the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association and the Fraternal Order of Police, organizations with over 26,000 and 325,000 members, respectively. These men and women serve our country every single day, working to keep us safe from threats ranging from terrorists to petty thieves. It is our duty to see that they receive the recognition they so rightly deserve.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VESSEL HULL DESIGN PROTECTION AMENDMENTS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6531, the Vessel Hull Design Protection Amendments of 2008. This bill amends the United States Code, in the section relating to the vessel hull design protection, to clarify the definitions of a hull and a deck. 
   Industrial designs, like other forms of intellectual property, originated in Europe and have a long history. The objective of industrial design protection is similar to other intellectual property protections: promoting the creation of new, unique, and appealing designs for products by granting exclusive economic rights for a limited time. Many countries have established industrial design laws that are separate and distinct from other forms of intellectual property rights. The United States provides protection for industrial designs through design patents, trade redress, copyright and vessel hull design protection. 
   There have been several efforts to provide a sui generis form of protection for industrial designs at least since the 1976 Copyright Act. However, it was not until 1998 that some limited success in these efforts took the form of the Vessel Hull Design Protection Act. This Act was passed as part of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. While the scope of protection in the Act was limited to vessel hulls, the act took much of its language and structure from previous legislative proposals establishing a general design right. 
   The Vessel Hull Design Protection Act grants exclusive rights to the design of an original vessel hull. To be original, a vessel hull design must be a non-trivial variation over prior vessel hulls, which is the result of the designer's creative endeavor and is not copied from another source. The Vessel Hull Design Protection Act does not provide any protection to non-original designs, staple or commonplace designs, and designs dictated solely by utilitarian function. The Vessel Hull Design Protection Act defines a ``hull'' as the frame or body of a vessel, including a deck. 
   Significantly, H.R. 6531, makes changes to this Act and excludes ``deck'' from the definition of a ``hull''. By H.R. 6531, ``hull'' is simply defined as the exterior frame or body of a vessel, exclusive of the deck, superstructure, masts, sails, yards, rigging, hardware, fixtures, and other attachments. The ``deck'' is defined as the horizontal surface of the vessel that covers the hull. 
   This refined definition should add more clarity to vessel hull protection. To secure vessel hull design protection, an application for the design must be submitted to the Copyright Office that sets forth the salient features of the design. According to the Copyright Office, applicants generally provided only a minimal description and rely heavily upon references to photographs they provide in their applications to define the designs they want protected. The Copyright Office must then decide whether the application, on its face, appears to be subject to protection. The definitional change provided by H.R. 6531 should simplify this process. 
   The Copyright Office's review focuses upon on making sure formal requirements are met, such as ensuring that the subject is a vessel and not a car, for instance. The review does not, however, look at the compliance with substantive requirements such as determining whether the design is original. 
   A registered vessel hull design gives the designer exclusive rights to make, sell, import, or use in trade, vessel hulls embodying the design. Certainly, the definitional change will make it easier to determine the design of the vessel and to ascertain whether any infringement has occurred. An infringing hull design is one that has been copied without the consent of the designer. A vessel hull design will not be considered copied if it is original and not substantially similar in appearance to a protected vessel hull design. When infringement is proven, a vessel hull designer may seek injunctive relief and either damages adequate to compensate for the infringement or the infringer's profits. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6531 because it simplifies the definition of a hull and makes it easier to determine whether there has been infringement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY INTELLIGENCE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 6545, the National Energy Security Intelligence Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Louisiana, Representative DON CAZAYOUX. This legislation is an important step in ensuring that rising energy costs do not endanger American lives. 
   It is obvious that the steep incline in energy prices that has been plaguing our citizens cannot be tolerated much longer, as it has led to rising food costs, transportation costs, and inflation. In addition to these economic issues, energy prices also negatively impact national security. 
   One key step in managing this situation is assessing the future supply and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and alternative fuels. By doing so, we limit the unpredictability of the energy market and its impact on daily lives. This will prevent energy and food crises like the one we are currently experiencing from occurring in the future. 
   Additionally, investigating the effects that rapidly escalating energy costs and extreme price fluctuations could have on national security is absolutely crucial. The possibility of energy sales being used to fund terrorist organizations or other adversaries of the United States, cannot be ignored. Americans cannot allow the money we spend on travelling to work or school everyday to end up in the hands of those who mean us harm. This is why we must know the implications of increasing funding through energy revenue to potential adversaries of the U.S., and we must also understand the intentions of key energy-producing and exporting nations with respect to energy production and supply. 
   This legislation will allow us to decide which countries are trust-worthy business partners, and which countries we must limit our energy trade with. It is also necessary to examine the national security implications of America's dependence on international energy supplies in order to further determine the benefits of exploring alternative energy supplies. 
   By requiring the Director of National Intelligence to submit to Congress a national intelligence assessment on national security and energy security issues relating to rapidly escalating energy costs, H. Res. 6545 assures that these issues will be examined and addressed. 
   As Members of Congress, and representatives of the people, it is our duty to ensure the safety and well-being of Americans. I urge my fellow Representatives to join me in support of H. Res. 6545, which is an essential step for national security.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMMETT TILL UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, allow me to take a moment of personal privilege to acknowledge the chairman of the full Judiciary Committee. It has only been a little over 6 months, or almost 6 months, that Mr. Conyers has taken the realm of this august body. And I think if history is to be accurate, to recount the volcanic change that has come about on the life-changing legislative initiatives that have been able to be moved out of this committee, we recognize that hate should not be applauded, but it should be made illegal.  
   We have confronted the issues dealing with the creativity of America, addressing the questions of patent reform. We are looking closely at the idea of how do we find a balance on the issue of immigration. We are listening, we are learning, we are sympathetic. We are, in fact, what the Judiciary Committee, one of the oldest committees, was really intended to do: to listen to the grievances of people and be able to find relief. 
   Let me thank the ranking member of the subcommittee, the ranking member of the full committee, for they have partnered on a number of initiatives, and we have found, sometimes, common ground. Today I rise on that very shining example of a common ground. 
   Allow me to thank Congressman Hulshof of Missouri for his passion and his commitment, and Mr. Sykes, who was a witness and who humbly said he was simply a public servant, someone who thought this idea was long in coming. 
   And so why we are here today is to talk about what many of you perceive as a television program called Cold Cases. I wish it was as simple as that. On that program, you do see the impact on families, but it is, in fact, a television program. Today, we speak of lives, lives long left on the dusty road of unsolved crimes, lives that are broken, torn, full of tears, looking for just a semblance of justice and hope in America. Maybe they were thinking of the words of Winston Churchill when he spoke to President Roosevelt in the dark ways of World War II, ``Give us the tools, and we will finish the job.'' That is what this bill does today; it gives the tools to America's prosecutors to pick up the broken pieces of the civil rights movement. 
   In 1989, we put together a memorial for those who had lost their lives in the civil rights era. They lost their lives not because they were criminals, not because they were caught in an unfortunate accident, but they lost their lives because they were on the battlefield for justice. They were murdered because they were active in the civil rights movement. They were killed by organized hate groups as acts of terror aimed at intimidating blacks and civil rights activists of many different colors and religious backgrounds. Their death, like the death of Emmett Till, helped to galvanize the movement by demonstrating the brutality faced by African Americans in the South. It is an era of terror which all of us have come to stand against, proudly so, which makes you very proud to stand here as an American, frankly, the greatest country in the world. For we have traveled a blood-stained road, but yet as we've traveled it, there have been those who have tried to go back and be able to bring us forward, united, arm in arm together, sweeping across America talking about the injustices of the past, but looking forward to the future for our children. 
   And so this bill is in tribute to the likes of Rita Bender, a witness who was brought before this committee. It was in recognition of the lives that we have heard of, Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney, buried deep in a mud pile. It was a testimony to JOHN LEWIS, who sits among us as an icon of conscience, who will tell you that in those muddy fields of Mississippi and Alabama, there are still skeletons that have yet been found. For many were killed, unnamed, and the relatives were too frightened to ever come forward. Maybe now, because this bill has a section in it on community relations, and I am hoping that as we provide oversight on this bill, we will increase those dollars from $1.5 million to $2 million or $2.5 million, because one of the witnesses said they could not have prosecuted the case had it not been for the persistence and the heart and determination of the family members, having lived under the shadow of this sin for so long. 
   This bill does create a deputy chief in the Criminal Division of the Civil Rights Division. Many of us would have preferred a division, some separate fixture standing with the responsibility to have the hammer, if you will, of rightness. But we support this legislation, and we hope that as our chairman has been diligent and vigilant, as he looks forward, that we will ensure that that deputy chief does the right thing and provides a vigorous advocacy and prosecution of those unsolved crimes.     
   Let me, Mr. Speaker, just recount very briefly the moving testimony that was given of the witnesses. Let me home in, if I could, on Myrlie Evers Williams. Why? Because it is part of my psyche to have seen Medgar Evers folding down on his front yard as he was murdered going into his home to see his wife and his children. 
   Can you imagine the horror of waiting for daddy to come home, waiting for your husband to come home, the dinner on the table, the radio playing, the children making the kinds of pleasant noises that children make? Her husband was a warrior, but a gentle man, a man of peace, a man who was willing to sacrifice his own future so that he might bring justice to some. 
   Let me, Mr. Speaker, as I close, simply ask my colleagues to remember this past and go to the future as I ask for support for this legislation. 
   I thank you, JOHN LEWIS, and I thank you, JOHN CONYERS.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong of H.R. 923, the ``Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act of 2007.'' This legislation, which I am proud to co-sponsor and strongly support, is intended to complete some of the Nation's most important unfinished business. And that is to solve some of the most depraved acts of violence against persons belonging to a racial group that was vulnerable, politically powerless, and innocent, and against those persons who risked life and limb to help them secure the rights promised in the Declaration of Independence and made real in the Constitution. 
   The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act of 2007 is long overdue. I thank our colleague, JOHN LEWIS of Georgia, who is widely recognized as the moral conscience of the House for sponsoring this legislation and I thank Chairmen CONYERS, SCOTT, and NADLER for their work in shepherding it through the legislative process. 
   Mr. Speaker, in 1989, the Civil Rights Memorial was dedicated in Montgomery, Alabama, the birthplace of the modern Civil Rights Movement. The Memorial honors the lives and memories of 40 martyrs who were slain during the movement from 1954 to 1968, including Emmett Till. But we know that many more people lost their lives to racial violence during that era. In fact, at the time the Memorial was dedicated, the killers of 13 of the 40 martyrs whose names are inscribed on the Memorial had not been prosecuted or convicted. In 10 of the 40 deaths, defendants were either acquitted by all-white juries or served only token prison sentences. We also know there are many cases that still cry out for justice. These unsolved crimes represent a continuing stain on our Nation's honor and mock its commitment to equal justice under law. The legislation before us is intended to help us remove that stain once and for all. 
   The 40 victims selected for inclusion in the Civil Rights Memorial fit at least one of three criteria: (1) they were murdered because they were active in the civil rights movement; (2) they were killed by organized hate groups as acts of terror aimed at intimidating blacks and civil rights activists; or, (3) their deaths, like the death of Emmett Till, helped to galvanize the movement by demonstrating the brutality faced by African Americans in the South. The 40 persons who fit the selection criteria ranged in age from 11 to 66. Seven were white, and 33 were black. They were students, farmers, ministers, truck drivers, a homemaker and a Nobel laureate. 
   But Mr. Speaker, there are many, many other victims besides the 40 who are remembered on the Memorial. The Southern Poverty Law Center reports that its research uncovered approximately 75 other people who died violently between 1952 and 1968 under circumstances suggesting that they were victims of racial violence. For most of them the reason their names were not added to the Memorial is because not enough was known about the details surrounding their deaths. Sadly, the reason so little is known about these cases is because they were never fully investigated or, in some cases, law enforcement officials were involved in the killings or subsequent cover-ups. And because the killings of African Americans were often covered up or never seriously investigated, there is little reason to doubt that many slayings were never even recorded by the authorities. 
   The reason justice had not been served was the callous indifference, and often the criminal collusion, of many white law enforcement officials in the segregated South. There simply was no justice for African Americans during the civil rights era. The whole criminal justice system--from the police, to the prosecutors, to the juries, and to the judges--was perverted by racial bigotry. African Americans were routinely beaten, bombed and shot with impunity. Sometimes, the killers picked their victims on a whim. Sometimes, they targeted them for their activism. In other cases, prominent white citizens were involved and no consequences flowed. Herbert Lee of Liberty, Mississippi, for example, was shot in the head by a state legislator in broad daylight in 1961.  
   It is, of course, fitting and proper that H.R. 923 bears the name 
   of Emmett Till, whose slaying in 1955 and his mother's decision to have an open casket at his funeral stirred the Nation's conscience and galvanized a generation of Americans to join the fight for equality. Sadly, hundreds of them were killed in that struggle, and many of the killers, like those of Emmett himself, were never successfully prosecuted. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to learn that the Department of Justice strongly supports this legislation. It should. No government agency has done more through the years to protect and defend the civil rights of African Americans and other victims of injustice. I hope the DOJ's embrace of this legislation represents a rededication to its historic role of ensuring equal justice under law for all, even the poor, powerless, and vulnerable. 
   Mr. Speaker, the heart of this legislation is sections 3 and 4. Section 3 establishes a Deputy Chief of the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division. Section 3 requires the Attorney General to designate a Deputy Chief of the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights division who will be responsible for coordinating the investigation and prosecution of violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred before December 31, 1969, and ended in death. 
   Section 3 also requires a study and report to Congress about the number of cases opened, the number of Federal prosecutions commenced, the number of cases of State and local prosecutions where the DOJ assisted, the number of cases that have been closed, and the number of open pending cases. The report shall be made not later than 6 months after the enactment of the Act. 
   Section 4 of the bill establishes a parallel component in the Civil Rights Unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to be headed by a Supervisory Special Agent designated by the Attorney General. This Supervisory Special Agent in the Civil Rights Unit is responsible for investigating violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred not later than December 31, 1969, and resulted in death. The Supervisory Special Agent should, where appropriate, coordinate investigations with State and local law enforcement officials. 
   Mr. Speaker, although I strongly support H.R. 923, I believe the bill would be even stronger if it incorporated three small but important amendments. First, I would recommend an amendment containing Congressional findings of fact that help explain to the nation and the world why the Congress was compelled to enact this vitally important legislation. We are enacting this legislation not because of who the perpetrators of these unsolved criminal violations of civil rights statutes are, but who we are, and who their victims were. 
   Mr. Speaker, over the past half century, the United States has made tremendous progress in overcoming the badges and vestiges of slavery. But this progress has been purchased at great cost. From Reconstruction through the modern Civil Rights Movement, heinous and depraved acts of violence were committed against persons belonging to a racial group that was innocent, vulnerable, and politically powerless, and also against those persons who risked life and limb to help them secure the rights promised in the Declaration of Independence and made real in the Constitution. Many of these crimes remain unsolved and no one has ever been held accountable. 
   Examples of unsolved cases include the 1968 ``Orangeburg Massacre'' at South Carolina State University where state police shot and killed three student protesters; the 1967 shooting death of Carrie Brumfield, whose body was found on a rural Louisiana road; the 1957 murder of Willie Joe Sanford, whose body was fished out of a creek in Hawkinsville, GA; the 1946 killing of a black couple, including a 
   pregnant woman, who was pulled out of a car in Monroe, GA, and dragged down a wagon trail before being shot in front of 200 people. 
   These unsolved crimes represent a continuing stain on our Nation's honor and mock its commitment to equal justice under the law. Solving these cases is part of the unfinished work of America. President Kennedy said it so well 44 years ago, when he addressed the Nation on June 11, 1963: ``this Nation, for all its hopes and all its boasts, will not be fully free until all its citizens are free.'' 
   A second amendment I would recommend is the establishment of a specially created section within the Civil Rights Division with dedicated resources, personnel, and budgetary authority to investigate and prosecute notorious and neglected pre-1970 criminal violations of the civil rights statutes. 
   I believe that in designating the Deputy Chief required by this legislation, the Attorney General must also be required to delegate to the Deputy Chief authority over the necessary personnel and budgetary resources. The high hope of H.R. 923 is that it may help bring justice to those whom justice has been delayed for more than two generations. The Deputy Chief, therefore, has an awesome responsibility. If we are to expect positive results, it is incumbent upon us to provide the Deputy Chief the resources and authority needed to be successful. As Winston Churchill said to President Roosevelt during the dark days of 1940: ``Give us the tools and we will finish the job!'' 
   I am pleased, however, that the bill authorizes annual appropriations of $10 million for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2017 for the purpose of investigating and prosecuting pre-1970 criminal violations of the civil rights statutes that resulted in a death. Similarly, I am pleased that the bill authorizes annual appropriations of $1,500,000 to the Community Relations Service of the Department of Justice to provide technical assistance by bringing together law enforcement agencies and communities in the investigation of criminal violations of civil rights statutes. 
   My third amendment I would recommend is to increase the amount of this annual appropriation by $500,000 to $2 million and to make this funding source available to assist the families of victims in coping with the loss of a loved one through counseling and other support services, financial and otherwise. Such assistance must be available to the victim's families because in many cases the testimony of a family member may be indispensable to government investigators and prosecutors. I am particularly mindful that the witnesses testifying before the Judiciary Committee hearing affirmed their belief that the government's ability successfully to investigate and solve criminal civil rights violations would be greatly enhanced were assistance and support available to the victims' families. 
   Mr. Speaker, 44 years ago, Medgar Evers was murdered in Jackson, Mississippi; justice would not be done in his case for more than twenty years. But that day was foretold because the evening before the death of Medgar Evers, on June 11, 1963, President John F. Kennedy addressed the Nation from the Oval Office on the state of race relations and civil rights in America. In his historic speech to the nation President Kennedy said:  
   We are confronted primarily with a moral issue. It is as old as the scriptures and is as clear as the American Constitution. 
   One hundred years of delay have passed since President Lincoln freed the slaves, yet their heirs, their grandsons, are not fully free. They are not yet freed from the bonds of injustice. They are not yet freed from social and economic oppression. And this Nation, for all its hopes and all its boasts, will not be fully free until all its citizens are free.  
   H.R. 923 is intended to help bring justice to those whom justice has been delayed for more than two generations. In doing so, this legislation will help this Nation fulfill its hopes and justify its boast that in America all persons live in freedom. 
   Mr. Speaker. I strongly support this historic legislation and urge all Members to join me in voting for its passage.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak in strong support of H.R. 2641, the ``Energy and Water Appropriations Act of 2007.'' I also rise to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Visclosky, the chairman of the Energy and Water Subcommittee and his Ranking Member, Mr. Hobson of Ohio, for working together in a constructive effort to renew America's dependence on foreign oil and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. 
   Moreover, this bill merits our support because it increases the Nation's commitment to long-term basic research by increasing the Federal investment that is so critical to developing the next generation of scientific breakthroughs. Federal funding for research and development has declined steadily over the last decade, and sound science has been compromised by political interference. This legislation takes a giant step toward reversing this disturbing trend. 
   Mr. Chairman, in the 1970s, our Nation faced an energy crisis unlike any we had ever experienced before. The OPEC oil embargo of 1973 led to skyrocketing prices, long gas lines, gas sales only every other day, and shortages where gas was simply unavailable. We experienced another oil shock in the late 1970s and under the leadership of President Jimmy Carter, America responded with unprecedented initiatives for energy research. But over the years, gas prices came down, incentive was lost, and these efforts fell by the wayside. 
   Today, we again face an energy crisis, only this time it is coupled with the enormous challenge of addressing the reality of global climate change. H.R. 2641 attempts to face these twin crises with over three billion dollars to address global climate change--researching its effects and working on technologies to slow it down--and investment in renewable energy programs that both reduce greenhouse gases and help our Nation meet its energy needs. 
   The bill cuts funding for poorly thought-out plans for nuclear weapons recognizing that because of the enormous cost and the importance to our national security they require smart strategies not blank checks. Instead it works to keep Americans safe with a 75 percent increase in funding for nuclear non-proliferation efforts. It also funds the Army Corps of Engineers, strengthening our Nation's navigation infrastructure and improving flood control programs. 
   Before I highlight some of the more attractive provisions of this legislation, which by the way contains no earmarks, let me explain briefly why this energy and water legislation is so near and dear to the people I represent in the 18th Congressional District of Texas. 
   In the past 2 years, Houston, the center of my district, has experienced some of the most devastating acts of nature in its history.  
   Six years ago this month, in June 2001, Tropical Storm Allison hit Southeast Texas. Until Hurricane Katrina, this storm would become the costliest tropical storm in U.S. history. Flash flooding initiated quite rapidly during Houston's rush hour late Friday afternoon and on into the evening hours. Widespread street flooding was the initial threat, but the high rainfall amounts forced almost all the major Houston area bayou systems into severe flooding, with some to record levels. All major freeways 
   in the Houston area were severely flooded at at least one location during this event. During this single event alone, rainfall in Harris County ranged from just 2 inches in the extreme west to in excess of 20 inches over Green's Bayou in the east. Countywide, the average rainfall was 8 inches with over two-thirds of the county receiving over 10 inches. 
   The total damage across Southeast Texas approached $5 billion ($4.88 billion in Harris County alone). Twenty-two deaths were caused by Allison, with each of these fatalities occurred in Harris County. At this time, thunderstorms began to train and merge across the Houston metro area, and the system evolved into a powerful complex right over the most populated portion of our CWA that evening. This complex progressed south and east into the early morning hours of Saturday, June 9. Very heavy rainfall was observed for up to 10 hours in some locations, and rainfall rates of 4 inches or more per hour were observed throughout the night. A station in northeast Houston recorded over 26 inches of rain in almost 10 hours. 
   In response, the Tropical Storm Allison Recovery Project was launched. TSARP is a joint study effort by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, and the Harris County Flood Control District, the District. The purpose of the TSARP project is to develop technical products that will assist the local community in recovery from the devastating flooding, and provide the community with a greater understanding of flooding and flood risks. The end product of the study is new Flood Insurance Rate Maps. 
   TSARP mission statement is: To assist residents of Harris County in recovery from Tropical Storm Allison and minimize damages from future floods by investigating the flood event and by developing current, accurate, and timely flood hazard information. 
   TSARP used state-of-the-art technology. TSARP has yielded many products that will help us better understand our flood risk. These products will assist citizens in making important decisions, and will assist public agencies in infrastructure planning. The hoped for end result of TSARP is a more informed and disaster resistant community and one that is better prepared. 
   Purchasing flood insurance before June 18 allowed people to ``grandfather'' their existing floodplain status and pay lower premiums for flood insurance. Once the maps became official on June 18, residents and business owners whose properties are categorized in higher-risk flood zones on the new maps may pay higher rates. 
   According to FEMA, a ``Regulatory Floodway'' means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height. Communities must regulate development in these floodways to ensure that there are no increases in upstream flood elevations. For streams and other watercourses where FEMA has provided Base Flood Elevations, BFEs, but no floodway has been designated, the community must review floodplain development on a case-by-case basis to ensure that increases in water surface elevations do not occur, or identify the need to adopt a floodway if adequate information is available. 
   FEMA regulations say ``Communities must regulate development in these floodways to ensure that there are no increases in upstream flood elevations.'' The City of Houston interprets that as no development within the floodway. This is not necessarily correct. Construction can take place but it cannot obstruct the water. Elevating the structure gets the same effect but the city denies this as they said (debris may collect under the structure). They will only allow a remodeling permit if the improvements do not exceed 50 percent of the structures value. 
   There is one neighborhood along White Oak Bayou that is greatly affected. The homes are of higher value than most of the district. Alternatives to resolve their issue includes widening the bayou or diverting floodwater. 
   The Harris County Flood District is now investigating these alternatives. Otherwise, the only solution would be a change in the city's ordinance allowing construction in the floodway. 
   I am looking forward to working with colleagues on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to explore ways and means of resolving this problem so that Houstonians will not be forced out of their homes and unable to afford flood insurance. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me provide this partial listing of some of the many good provisions in this legislation. First, H.R. 2641 will improve U.S. waterways and flood protection by increasing funding for the Army Corps of Engineers by $713.4 million above the President's request to address a $1 billion backlog of operations and needed maintenance. This backlog needs to be addressed to sustain the coastal and inland navigation infrastructure critical to the U.S. economy, and the gaps in flood protection highlighted in Hurricane Katrina. 
   Second, the legislation will help reduce dependence on foreign oil and cut greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy and energy efficiency programs are funded at $1.9 billion--a 50 percent increase in energy efficiency and renewable energy programs. This is in addition to the additional $300 million added in the FY 2007 joint resolution. In contrast, the President's FY 2008 request for renewable energy and energy efficiency research is the same as it was in 2001 in real terms. 
   Funding for research and development of alternative fuels such as corn based and cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel is increased by 40 percent above the President's request. Solar Energy demonstration projects receive a 34 percent increase above the President's request. There is also $22 million to research new ways of generating power from water flow, and $44.3 million for geothermal energy, neither of which were funded in the President's request. (This is on top of the $95 million for upgrades to existing hydropower dams funded under the Army Corps.) 
   I could go on and on. This thoughtful legislation provides funding to invest in new vehicle technology; energy efficient buildings; weatherization; carbon capture and sequestration; and climate change science. And it cuts wasteful spending as well. 
   For example, H.R. 2641 directs the Energy Department to develop a concrete plan to improve its contract management. The Energy Department has been on the GAO list of programs that are at high-risk for waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement for seventeen years in a row. 
   The bill also cuts Global Nuclear Energy Partnership, GNEP, funding by $285 million below the President's request and $47.5 million below 2007 for this initiative to reprocess spent nuclear fuel and burn long-lived radioactive materials. There are concerns that this project is unsafe, will cost tens of billions of dollars, and could make it far easier for terrorists to obtain plutonium to make nuclear weapons. 
   The bill also secures substantial savings by cutting wasteful and unnecessary nuclear weapons programs by $5.9 billion, $632 million below the President's request and $396 million below 2007. It cuts to 37 specific weapons program accounts, including the Reliable Replacement Warhead program. The existing stockpile will continue to provide the Nation's nuclear deterrent for the next two decades, and certainly until the President develops a strategic nuclear weapons plan to transform the nuclear weapons complex away from its expensive Cold War configuration to a more affordable, sustainable structure. 
   Mr. Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2641 and urge my colleagues to join me. I thank Chairman VISCLOSKY for his fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE NEEDS OF CHILDREN IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thought I would reflect this evening on the needs of our children in America. Today we just debated a legislative initiative to attempt to respond to the health care needs of our children. The good news was the House bill understood that money was the answer to the uninsured children, $50 billion. We didn't quite get there. But I am committed to coming back so that all children can be insured, legal immigrants who have a right to be here and are documented, their children can be insured. But we have to fight this battle. My question to the President is: Do you care? 
   And then I want to say to this Congress, another young man is languishing in a jail in Jena, Louisiana. It is time to free Mychel Bell, someone who was inappropriately charged as an adult. He is representing thousands of young people wrongly prosecuted, minority young people, who have not been able to find justice. 
   So to this Congress, help us free Mychel Bell and the Jena 6. Enough is enough. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 976, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman from Massachusetts and the chairman of the full Committee on Ways and Means and the chairman of Energy and Commerce. This is correctly stated by the chairman of the Ways and Means: this is not the House bill. 
   I love our children. I have great concerns about this legislation, but I have more concerns about my Republican friends who are opposing this legislation, and I am outraged about the President's threat of a veto. Even this bill does not cover the 6 million children that we need to cover, it only covers 2.4 million. My friends, this is not Medicaid; this is SCHIP. This is for working men and women whose children don't have health insurance; 2.8 million are insured. We wanted 5 million, 6 million; but, no, we only have 2.8 million, 3.2 million left out. 
   And then, of course, there was the possibility of insuring some adults, the most vulnerable sick adults, under SCHIP with remaining monies. This bill does not do that. And then, of course, we look at individuals who are of legal immigrant status and we tell them they cannot be covered--these immigrants are here legally. 
   We also are asking people to come to the emergency room with a sick child with citizenship documentation. And let me say, this is for all of us. And so you have a sick child and you're looking for citizenship documentation. On the other hand, I am grateful that we have parity with dental and mental care for SCHIP children. And pregnant women are covered. And then we have the ability to enroll the children quickly, because one of the problems of SCHIP is that children are not enrolled. But the real crisis is no answer coming from the White House children's health care. The only thing coming from the White House is a veto pen. 
   So not only will 6 million children be left out in the cold, but the small number, 2.8 million, that was squeaking through the door will be thrown under the bus because we won't be able to cover them because a veto pen is waiting for us. We can do better. America is better than this. 
   I love our children. We need to do this in the right way. We certainly don't need a veto pen by the President of the United States. We should love our children and respond to their health needs.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my disappointment in the version of the State Children's Health Insurance Program Act of 2007 which has been brought before this body today. This bill, which has been largely driven by the Republicans in the Senate, falls far short of the mark to mend the broken pieces of our healthcare system and provide healthcare coverage for some of our most vulnerable populations in this country. Instead of covering an additional 6 million uninsured children, this bill increases coverage for 3 million, leaving 3 million children uninsured. This bill also fails to provide vision coverage and provides very little mental coverage for our children. Pregnant women may also suffer under this bill because this bill, unlike the previous House version, does not guarantee additional coverage for pregnant women. This bill also denies coverage to parents, college-aged adults, and legal immigrants who currently have coverage in some states. 
   This is extremely important because reauthorization of SCHIP is crucial to closing the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country. Narrowing health care coverage of our children, as this newly agreed upon version does, clearly falls far short of the goal that we had hoped for in our efforts to decrease health disparities. It is crucial that this Congress continue to bring awareness to the many health concerns facing minority communities and to acknowledge that we need to find solutions to address these concerns. My colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I understand the very difficult challenges facing us in the form of huge health disparities among our community and other minority communities. We will continue to seek solutions to those challenges. 
   Reauthorization of the SCHIP bill is crucial to realizing those solutions. However, we must not compromise away the health of millions of children who will under this new SCHIP version go without healthcare coverage. It is imperative for us to improve the prospects for living long and healthy lives and fostering an ethic of wellness in African-American and other minority communities. 
   Looking at the statistics, we know that the lack of healthcare contributes greatly to the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country, so we must provide our children with the health insurance coverage to remain healthy. SCHIP, established in 1997 to serve as the healthcare safety net for low-income uninsured children, has decreased the number of uninsured low-income children in the United States by more than one-third. The reduction in the number of uninsured children is even more striking for minority children. 
   In 2006, SCHIP provided insurance to 6.7 million children. Of these, 6.2 million were in families whose income was less than $33,200 a year for a family of three. SCHIP works in conjunction with the Medicaid safety net that serves the lowest income children and ones with disabilities. Together, these programs provide necessary preventative, primary and acute healthcare services to more than 30 million children. Eighty-six percent of these children are in working families that are unable to obtain or afford private health insurance. Meanwhile, healthcare through SCHIP is cost effective: it costs a mere $3.34 a day or $100 a month to cover a child under SCHIP, according to the Congressional Budget Office. There are significant benefits of the State Children's Health Insurance Program when looking at specific populations served by this program. 
   Minority Children: SCHIP has had a dramatic effect in reducing the number of uninsured minority children and providing them access to care; Between 1996 and 2005, the percentage of low-income African American and Hispanic children without insurance decreased substantially; In 1998, roughly 30 percent of Latino children, 20 percent of African American children, and 18 percent of Asian American and Pacific Islander children were uninsured. After enactment, those numbers had dropped by 2004 to about 12 percent, and 8 percent, respectively; Half of all African American and Hispanic children are already covered by SCHIP or Medicaid; More than 80 percent of uninsured African American children and 70 percent of uninsured Hispanic children are eligible but not enrolled in Medicaid and SCHIP, so reauthorizing and increasing support for SCHIP will be crucial to insuring this population. 
   Prior to enrolling in SCHIP, African American and Hispanic children were much less likely than non-Hispanic White children to have a usual source of care. After they enrolled in SCHIP, these racial and ethnic disparities largely disappeared. In addition, SCHIP eliminated racial and ethnic disparities in unmet medical needs for African American and Hispanic children, putting them on par with White children. SCHIP is also important to children living in urban areas of the country. In urban areas: One in four children has health care coverage through SCHIP. More than half of all children whose family income is $32,180 received health care coverage through SCHIP. 
   Children in Urban Areas: SCHIP is also important to children living in urban areas of the country. In urban areas: One in four children has health care coverage through SCHIP. More than half of all children whose family income is $32,180 received healthcare coverage through SCHIP. 
   Children in Rural Communities: SCHIP is significantly important to children living in our country's rural areas. In rural areas: One in three children has health care coverage through SCHIP or more than half of all children whose family income is under $32,180 received healthcare coverage through Medicaid or SCHIP. Seventeen percent of children continue to be of the 50 counties with the highest rates of uninsured children, 44 are rural counties, with many located in the most remote and isolated parts of the country. Because the goal is to reduce the number of uninsured children, reauthorizing and increasing  support for SCHIP will be crucial to helping the uninsured in these counties and reducing the 17 percent of uninsured. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would much rather we extend the deadline for reauthorization of SCHIP, while we diligently and reasonably consider the unsettled issues in this debate so that millions of the most vulnerable population, including many African American and other minority children can receive the health care coverage they need to remain healthy and develop into productive citizens of this great country. It is not as important to reauthorize an inferior bill under pressure of fast-approaching deadlines, as it is to ensure that we provide health care to those children who remain vulnerable to health disparities. I urge my colleagues to join me in ensuring health care coverage for millions of children and reducing health disparities among the most vulnerable populations.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HIGH PRICE OF GASOLINE -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, where is a good Samaritan? My friends are talking about the high price of gasoline. Can you imagine the impact on those who have exhausted their unemployment, people who have built this Nation, hard-working Americans. 
   Do you recognize that just this past week, unfortunately, with embarrassment, the administration had to announce that unemployment rose 5 percent in April, 5.5 percent in May, 49,000 jobs were lost. Where is the good Samaritan? 
   That is why today Democrats will stand on the floor of the House and stand alongside of working Americans and extend the unemployment benefits for those families who have exhausted all of their resources, this will go into March 2009, helping the bus driver, the nurse, helping those who are working with their hands, who have families to support, who can barely get gasoline. 
   Can you imagine being unemployed through no fault of your own, and this administration does not want to offer the extension of unemployment benefits? Today the good Samaritan will be on the floor of the House. We will debate this question. We will pass this bill. The President will sign it, and we will give relief to hard-working Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6063, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the rule for H.R. 6063, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2008. As we mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the United States space program, this legislation reaffirms the ever growing and changing role of NASA, providing resources to carry the agency forward with its ambitious agenda of research, exploration, and discovery. I would like to thank Congressman Udall for introducing this important legislation, as well as Science Committee Chairman Gordon for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
   This structured rule allows for the consideration of 14 amendments, including one that I offered. I would also like to thank Chairman Gordon for his support of my amendment, which modifies section 1108 of the bill, and it states: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CAROLINE PRYCE WALKER CONQUER CHILDHOOD CANCER ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Congresswoman Pryce and I came to the floor as a mother, and certainly someone who has spent a good deal of time working in the Women's Caucus. And we would be together in a time when Democrats and Republicans would come together around issues of children and women. And I know of your forceful voice. And so I come today to thank you for this legislation and this tribute to Caroline because, coming from Houston, we have the Texas Children's Hospital. And I have visited the McDonald's House, which is a home that families are able to use to be able to see the children who are with their family who are suffering from cancer and obviously are in great need of pediatric research. And you see the smiling faces, and you see the uniqueness of their look, if you will--many of their heads are shaven--but you also see love. And this is what this bill represents to all of us; it is a testament of love, and the fact that children should have a future. 
   Caroline Pryce Walker, in the words Conquer Child Cancer Act of 2008, is embodied in the love that you have for your daughter. 
   I just want to recount one or two of the findings, because I think it is very important to note that cancer kills more children than any other disease. Many of us don't know that. You would think of many other elements that might kill. You don't know that cancer is the number one killer of children. 
   Each year, cancer kills more children between one and 20 years of age than asthma, diabetes, cystic fibrosis and AIDS. So I simply want to close by indicating that I was in a committee hearing and we just finished and I saw you speaking on the floor, and I was compelled to just come and say thank you. Thank you for your leadership. And you have entrusted in us the fact that we will carry on in your name and in your daughter's name. 
   I ask for support of this bill, and I thank Chairman Pallone. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENCOURAGING DISPLAY OF THE FLAG ON FATHER'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2356, which amends title 4 of the United States Code to encourage the display of the flag of the United States on Father's Day. Unfortunately, our flag code does not include Father's Day in the list of important occasions. H.R. 2356 rectifies this oversight by including Father's Day, among the important holidays on which Americans are encouraged to fly the American flag. 
   Father's Day in USA is celebrated with great enthusiasm and lot of fanfare on third Sunday of June. In observing this day, people reflect on the invaluable role played by fathers in building the character of children and in the development of the Nation. On Father's Day we honor our fathers and express gratitude for their love and affection. 
   It is a wonderful idea to raise the American flag on Father's Day, and allow it to symbolize the hard work and dedication of our fathers. The benefits of a father's influence are well documented. School achievements in children may be negatively effected in the absence of a good father-child relationship. Father influence can affect the choice of occupations, preferred school subjects, and role development of their children. Clearly, the father can greatly impact the lives of his children.  
   For all of these reasons, we should honor American fathers by amending the flag code to include Father's Day on the list of important observances.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LET'S BRING OUR SOLDIERS HOME -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, earlier today I made mention of an interesting new theory that is being promoted through the Nation's newspapers, and, certainly, let me acknowledge the respect that we have in this Congress for the United States military and their never-ending challenge and acceptance of responsibility in their work in Iraq and certainly, of course, Afghanistan. 
   We know that both of those regions are becoming more difficult. In Afghanistan, the Taliban is rising, and, frankly, just recently, there was an attempted assassination attack on President Karzai in Afghanistan with a message from the Taliban saying that ``We were involved'' and, in essence, ``We are on the rise.'' 
   In fact, that is where the root of terror is. After 9/11, that is where this Congress almost unanimously instructed the President on behalf of the American people to fight the war on terror, to fight al Qaeda, and to find Osama bin Laden. Unfortunately, this administration has failed, failed its duty to this Nation, and not represented itself to the American people and to this Congress as to what its next steps are with respect to fighting terror. 
   Now we find ourselves muddling around in Iraq, we are almost to the middle of June, and almost 30 Americans have died in Iraq. This is an unending mission without a mission, an unending story without an end. 
   Now we read in the Nation's newspaper America's strategy in Iraq to arm the Sunnis. But at the same time as we arm the Sunnis, we are in negotiations with them to promise us that they will not shoot American soldiers. 
   I believe that this may be a reasonable response to arm Sunnis to fight al Qaeda, to arm Sunnis to engage with the Iraqi National Army. But it is not a reasonable response with American soldiers sitting in the line of fire. 
   Again, I say, having visited with my constituents over the weekend, having visited with constituents in churches and grocery stores, in meetings, in civic meetings, everywhere I go, in religious institutions or houses of faith, everywhere I go in my congressional district, people are asking the singular question. That is, when are our soldiers going to come home from Iraq? 
   When I get the loudest applause is when I say that this Congress must bring our soldiers home, and that it is my intention to work with every Member of Congress who is willing to stand up to ensure that our soldiers come home, not because of our job has not been completed, not because our soldiers are not strong, not because our soldiers are wimps, but because, in fact, our soldiers are heroes. 
   I believe, as in my legislation H.R. 930, that we should bring them home under a military success. They have done their job. They have deposed Saddam Hussein. They have discovered that there were no weapons of mass destruction. They have finished the mission. 
   We should declare a military victory for those soldiers and those who lost their lives and begin to transfer the leadership of the efforts in Iraq to the Iraqi national Army and the Iraqi national police. I cannot understand this theory, this particular strategy, when our soldiers are still on the ground. All I can see is armed Sunnis, armed al Qaeda, armed Shiites, all pointing guns at our soldiers, who are there, simply, to follow the mission of a President who will not listen. 
   I am interested in military strategy. I want our military generals to be creative. If they believe that this is an effective tool, then this tool must be utilized without our soldiers, in essence, if I might say, without any disrespect, to be shooting targets or sitting ducks. 
   This does not seem to be the right kind of approach if our soldiers are still going to be in the midst. Even if they relocate the soldiers out of the particular area, they are still on the ground. Armed Sunnis are armed Sunnis. Armed Sunnis and armed Shiites move around. They don't necessarily have to stay in one area. 
   I expect that we will have a briefing tomorrow. I hope that they will discuss  with us, the Members of Congress, on behalf of their constituents, what does this mean for the lives of our soldiers? What does this mean for the number of those who have lost their lives already and their brothers and sisters may now be in the greater line of fire with people being armed, and armed with what? 
   What level of weaponry will they have, and how far will this weaponry be able to go, and what will they be able to do with it? It is obviously a challenge. 
   It is time to bring our soldiers home. If this is what we are doing, let's transfer the fight to the Iraqi national Army and the Iraqi police. 
   Let's bring our soldiers home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING AND WELCOMING THE DELEGATION OF PRESIDENTS, PRIME MINISTERS, AND FOREIGN MINISTERS FROM THE CARIBBEAN TO WASHINGTON, DC -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 418, recognizing and welcoming the delegation of Presidents, Prime Ministers, and Foreign Ministers from the Caribbean to Washington, DC, and commending the Caribbean Community, CARICOM, for holding the Conference on the Caribbean. 
   I will first begin by thanking my colleague on the Foreign Affairs committee and chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Representative Eliot Engel, for introducing such an important key resolution, which welcomes to Washington, DC, Presidents, Prime Ministers, and Foreign Ministers from all nations of the Caribbean. Through cooperation between CARICOM, the Department of State and the United States Congress, delegates will meet for the first time in history for a three day--June 19-June 21, 2007--Conference on the Caribbean. 
   As a member of the United States House of Representatives, I recognize the deep and historic ties between our American people and those of the Caribbean. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Caribbean community, CARICOM, for holding this conference, as well as to recognize and welcome all delegates to the United States. I look forward to working with the Caribbean community in maintaining and strengthening the relations between both countries. 
   CARICOM was created through the Treaty of Chaguaramas in 1973 to aid in developing stronger trade and economic relations, improving labor relations, and sustaining economic development and overall cooperation when dealing with third-party states. It will be the hope of all delegates convened to usher in a new era of cooperation between the U.S. and the Caribbean; an area of the world that is often neglected. 
   As a strong supporter of the notion of a global marketplace of ideas, I strongly believe that this meeting can serve as a landmark toward creating mutually beneficial relationships, as well as enhancing collaboration in several areas such as trade and economic relationships, crimes, drugs and terrorism, while also combating the spread of diseases, including HIV/AIDS. The Conference on the Caribbean also allows the two countries to cooperate on new and clean energy-production technologies. 
   As a leader in one of the most diverse metropolitan districts in the nation, as well as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee here on Capitol Hill, I strongly cherish the bond that our two nations share. I can attest to the significant contributions that Americans of Caribbean heritage are making in America. Houston  is a multicultural city with a large and even advancing international community; for that reason, I strongly support and value a cultural outreach effort. 
   I thank you once again, Mr. Engel, for your efforts in introducing this piece of legislation. I am looking forward to witnessing the results of this upcoming conference. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PASSPORT PROCESSING BACKLOG -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, just last week I joined my colleagues Congressman Gene Green and Congressman NICK LAMPSON on trying to address the ongoing crisis in our communities, because we have a regional office for passports. Overnight stays, early morning arrivals, families crying and families not being able to be reunited, people traveling for hundreds of miles, and the reason is passport backlog because of no extra staff. 
   Let me thank the staff who work so hard to ensure that those who came could be served. We asked the State Department today to provide us with temporary permanent workers to carry out the responsibility. 
   I would also say if there are waivers now being made for places like the Caribbean and Canada, I would only beg that information be given to travelers so they don't go to the airport and not have the necessary documentation. 
   Madam Speaker, I close by saying I am reading today as well that the U.S. military is getting ready to arm the Sunnis. I would say if the Iraq war has come to this, it is time to bring our soldiers home. This is not the way to run a war. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong support for H.R. 295, and, in doing so, I would first like to commend Mr. KING for introducing this resolution. The relationship between the United States and the Republic of Korea has been a pivotal relationship in world affairs since our forces fought side by side in Korean War over a half century ago. Out of that conflict marked the divide between communist Asia and democratic Asia. The partnership between us and the Republic of Korea held the divide for decades, and together we helped maintain stable peace in East Asia. 
   In the post-Cold War world, the Republic of Korea has remained a steadfast U.S. ally. Its forces are deployed in Afghanistan and it has contributed troops and pledged reconstruction funds for Iraq. As a key member of the Six Party Talks to denuclearize North Korea, it shares an important responsibility for broader security in Northeast Asia. Together, we are committed absolutely to compelling the dangerous North Korean regime to eliminate its nuclear program. 
   Overall, South Korea is a key partner an ally in the challenge of combating terrorism worldwide. The combination of emerging terrorism threats and the North Korean challenge make this resolution particularly important today. 
   In the economic realm, too, the U.S. relationship with the Republic of Korea is one of our strongest in Asia. For example, the Republic of Korea was one of the original ``East Asian Tigers,'' and served as a model for other Asian countries with a booming economic growth in the 1970s, 80s and 90s. Currently, South Korea is now the United States' 7th largest trading partner in the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am extremely proud to stand as one of cosponsors of this legislation. This resolution honors the close alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea, and recognizes South Korea's important contributions to fighting against terrorism around the world. It also welcomes the strengthening and deepening of the relationship between our two countries and our peoples. I thank all of my colleagues who have already signed on to this bill, and I urge those who have not to support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise enthusiastically to support this very important rule. 
   I congratulate the very strategic design of the Appropriations Committee. This is tough, and I thank the Rules Committee for listening to us as we presented our amendments. 
   But I rise today to say that war is ugly. But we applaud and appreciate the young men and women on the front lines. We forever honor them. Just a few minutes ago I was in a room listening to returning war veterans from Iraq, and they gave us these words, horrible stories, such as calling the  Iraqis hajis or sand niggers, telling us about the impact on their families, how many families were destroyed, how many have attempted to commit suicide. 
   I offered an amendment that many focused on the idea that everything we have asked the soldiers to do under the 2002 resolution has been done, and, therefore, it should expire. The President has no more authority to continue this war. 
   Then I wanted to debunk the actions of what happened to the Vietnam vets and call for a national day of celebration, a national day of honor for all the returning war heroes that will come home. This is what we should be doing today as we vote against the funding of this war in Iraq. It is important to stand for these soldiers. 
   But I am glad that we have extended GI benefits for veterans' education. Some of them were telling us that they are now being denied these benefits because of a general discharge, because of their opposition to the war. Yes, it is valuable because we move on to help Americans in this bill as well, extending unemployment compensation, getting rid of these cuts in Medicaid and making sure that we don't damage specialty hospitals that are in our rural and inner city areas who are helping us. 
   I am grateful to what the Appropriations Committee did on world and food hunger. It is a disaster, and they moved it up higher than what the President asked for. We had a briefing on world hunger and it was appalling what is going on around the world. I am grad that we have monies for refugee assistance and the Merida funding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The Merida initiative is funding for this horrible drug war between Mexico and its own citizens that's spilling over into the United States. I am appreciative of these dollars, but, my friends, we have got to stop the utilization of drugs here in the United States. 
   It looks like it's McDonald's where they send these various drugs. When I say that, I am not talking about McDonald's, but I am suggesting that the pinpoints of where these drugs are dropped off in the United States, it is tragic. As we send more money and more money to Mexico, we have got to begin to devise a new policy for drug opposition here in the United States. 
   Vote against the funding for the war. The underlying other amendments are very good.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1197, Rule providing for the consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642--Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008. While I offer my support for amendments No. 2 and No. 3, I must oppose amendment No. 1. While amendments 2 and 3 contain provisions beneficial to the American people, designed to improve our economy and protect our young men and women, amendment 1 continues a disastrous policy of providing unrestricted funding to continue the Bush administration's war in Iraq. 
   I oppose amendment No. 1 because I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid over $600 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 4076 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. Last May, I was proud to vote for H.R. 1591, a supplemental spending bill that would have provided funds for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which included a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops. Though this bill passed the House by a clear majority, the President opted to veto this legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, I must oppose amendment No. 1. This amendment provides a total of $162.9 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and FY 2009, funds that are handed over without any strings. The amendment does not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans now support. The amendment does not require that war funds can only be used for the responsible redeployment of American troop's home from Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud of that vote. I have consistently voted against the administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing national priorities. I cannot support legislation that provides the President with the resources to prolong his ill-advised war effort unrestrained. 
   I rise today in strong support of amendment No. 2. This amendment lays out a responsible U.S. policy toward Iraq, requiring that troops begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 days, with a goal of completing the withdrawal of combat troops by December 2009. As a Member of both the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq. 
   In addition, Madam Speaker this legislation specifically requires that any agreement between the United States and the government of Iraq committing future U.S. forces must be specifically authorized by Congress. The governments of Iraq and the United States announced their intention to forge a ``strategic framework agreement,'' a long-term, bilateral pact, to be completed by July 31, 2008. This negotiated agreement is to be based on the ``Declaration of Principles for a Long-Term Relationship of Cooperation and Friendship Between the Republic of Iraq and the United States of America,'' signed November 26, 2007, by Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Bush. 
   Under the Declaration of Principles, the parties will negotiate a security agreement, under which the United States will support the Iraqi government and security forces in providing security and stability and fighting al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The Declaration of Principles envisions an agreement setting forth a wide-ranging set of commitments, which will cover issues including politics, economics, and security. In hearings before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, administration officials have indicated that the President intends to negotiate this agreement as an executive agreement, not subject to Congressional approval. It is essential that any agreement which commits future U.S. troops to the defense of Iraq is outside the purview of existing authorizations, and such an agreement must be submitted to the Congress for approval. This legislation also prohibits the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, amendment No. 2 requires that the Iraqi government step up and pay its share of Iraqi reconstruction efforts. I am concerned that the United States has paid and continues to pay a disproportionate amount for Iraq reconstruction, especially when the Iraqi government reportedly has a $25-30 billion budget surplus this year. To date the United States has appropriated more than $45 billion for Iraq reconstruction. American funded reconstruction programs have included: the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces. 
   Iraq is a resource-rich nation. Though still facing problems including a lack of technology, damage from previous mismanagement, the effects of looting, and water intrusion, Iraqi oil production is currently at around 2 million barrels per day. The price of oil has skyrocketed to over $100 a barrel and Iraqi oil exports are generating an estimated $56.4 billion this year alone, according to the GAO, yet it is U.S. taxpayers who continue to foot the bill for Iraqi reconstruction. The government of Iraq is stashing its money in global banks, including a reported $30 billion in the U.S., instead of investing this money in the development of crucial Iraqi infrastructure. This legislation requires the Iraqi government to take responsibility for the future of its own nation. 
   There are a number of other key provisions in this amendment. It requires the President to reach an agreement with Iraq to subsidize fuel costs for U.S. Armed Forces operating in Iraq so that our military pays what Iraqis pay. It requires that troop's meet the Pentagon's definition of ``combat ready'' before they are deployed to Iraq; Prohibits troops from being deployed longer than Pentagon guidelines recommend; and requires that troops spend adequate time at home between deployments. This legislation makes substantial strides toward cleaning up contracting in Iraq, expanding current law to make all contractors working in war zones subject to prosecution for offenses that would otherwise be in violation of U.S. law; extending the statute of limitations for fraud cases 
   during wartime; and amending the Federal criminal code to prohibit profiteering and fraud involving contractors overseas. In addition, it prohibits interrogation techniques not authorized in the Army Field Manual, a provision necessary in eliminating torture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. 
   I rise in opposition to one more dollar being spent on the war in Iraq but many, many dollars spent on the brave men and women. I thank the leadership and I thank this committee for allowing us to spend dollars because of a responsibility to our troops with the GI Bill. 
   I also offer to my constituents, but also to this body, that we have an emergency, as well, with our summer jobs program. And I hope that we will find a way to fund a summer jobs program for our youth. 
   Let me say that there is not a tax burden in this bill, and I thank our leadership for understanding PAYGO. This is nothing more than an opportunity for those who make over $1 million to experience the burden, if you will, of the sacrifice this Nation is making on behalf of our troops. The moneys that are expended, only $500 for those making over $1 million and more, will be given to our troops with the GI Bill of Rights. 
   Where do we stand? I stand with the flag on behalf of the American troops. This is a great bill. Vote against the funding for the war and vote for the redeployment of our troops, a better domestic plan, and yes, an opportunity to pass the GI Bill of Rights, the GI Bill for our young men and women.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the continued funding of the Iraq war. While I offer my support for Amendments No. 2 and No. 3, I must oppose amendment No. 1. While amendments 2 and 3 contain provisions beneficial to the American people, designed to improve our economy and protect our young men and women, amendment 1 continues a disastrous policy of providing unrestricted funding to continue the Bush administration's war in Iraq. 
   Last night, I offered three amendments to this legislation in the rules committee. My first amendment would have added three sense of Congress paragraphs: ``(1) The war in Iraq should end as safely and quickly as possible and our troops should be brought home; (2) the performance of United States military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan should be commended, their courage and sacrifice have been exceptional, and when they come home, their service should be recognized appropriately, including through the observance of a national day of celebration; and (3) the primary purpose of funds made available by this Act should be to transition the mission of United States Armed Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not to extend or prolong the war.'' 
   This amendment is borne from my deeply held belief that we must commend our military for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq. As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations. 
   I very strongly believe that our Nation has a moral obligation to ensure that our veterans are treated with the respect and dignity that they deserve. One reason we are the greatest Nation in the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve to know that a grateful Nation cares about them. 
   The second amendment that I offered explicitly states that the goals laid out by the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002, AUMF, have all been achieved by our troops in Iraq. 
   As my amendment describes, the brave men and women of our military have done everything we asked them to do. The United States Armed Forces successfully toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein and captured the key cities of Iraq in only 21 days. Because of the skill and dedication of the members of the Armed Forces, the entire world has now been assured that Iraq does not possess weapons  of mass destruction that could threaten the United States or any member nation of the international community. The Armed Forces performed magnificently in conducting military operations designed to ensure that the people of Iraq would enjoy the benefits of a democratically-elected government governing a country that is capable of sustaining itself economically and politically and defending itself militarily. In June 2004, the Armed Forces facilitated the transfer of sovereignty from the Coalition Provisional Authority to the interim Government of Iraq, which governed Iraq until December 2005 when national elections were held in which more than 8 million Iraqi men and women voted in elections that were free and fair. 
   While our troops have achieved the objectives for which they were sent to Iraq, they are now caught in the midst of a sectarian conflict. Unfortunately, there is no military solution to Iraq's ongoing political and sectarian conflicts. This is a war without end. Though President Bush continues to rely on a strategy that seeks to stabilize and reconcile Iraq by force, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting peace. Thus far, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an inability or an unwillingness to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation, which was the rationale and stated objective of the recent troop surge. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts--even by members of the Bush Administration--is an ineffective central Iraqi government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the American people. 
   The third amendment that I offered would provide funds for summer youth employment and training activities under the Workforce Investment Act. Unfortunately, many of our youth have to help out their families in these troubling economic times. Many of the youth who could obtain skills and training in their summer jobs state that they would either be sitting around watching television or getting into trouble if they were not in their communities working. 
   For more than 30 years, beginning in the 1960s, the Federal Government saw the enormous benefit of providing summer jobs to millions of disadvantaged youth across America. But since 2000, the Summer Youth Employment and Training Program, SYETP, has lost its direct funding, and is now effectively buried among 10 competing programs within the Workforce Investment Act, WIA. With unemployment soaring and the summer heat approaching, there is an urgent need to bring back summer jobs for youth. We need to be cognizant of the fact that many families count on their children working during the summer to raise money for college. 
   Families are facing a foreclosure crisis, the rising cost of gas, and health care; this amendment provides more money for workforce preparedness among our youth. When we invest in our youth and foster a sense of responsibility it will last a lifetime, aiding not only them, but their families, and our communities. This amendment would give our youth the skills and training they need to enter the workforce, and the money they and their families need to make it in these tough economic times. 
   However, the legislation we are considering today contains many important provisions, but, unfortunately, the first amendment continues funding for a war that I strongly oppose. I oppose amendment No. 1 because I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid over $600 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 4076 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. Last May, I was proud to vote for H.R. 1591, a supplemental spending bill that would have provided funds for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which included a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops. Though this bill passed the House by a clear majority, the President opted to veto this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I must oppose Amendment No. 1. This amendment provides a total of $162.9 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and FY 2009, funds that are handed over without any strings. The amendment does not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans now support. The amendment does not require that war funds can only be used for the responsible redeployment of American troops home from Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing national priorities. I cannot support legislation that provides the President with the resources to prolong his ill-advised war effort unrestrained. 
   I rise today in strong support of Amendment No. 2. This amendment lays out a responsible U.S. policy toward Iraq, requiring that troops begin redeployment from Iraq within 30 days, with a goal of completing the withdrawal of combat troops by December 2009. As a Member of 
   both the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq. 
   In addition, Mr. Speaker, this legislation specifically requires that any agreement between the United States and the Government of Iraq committing future U.S. forces must be specifically authorized by Congress. The governments of Iraq and the United States announced their intention to forge a strategic framework agreement, a long-term, bilateral pact, to be completed by July 31, 2008. This negotiated agreement is to be based on the Declaration of Principles for a Long-Term Relationship of Cooperation and Friendship Between the Republic of Iraq and the United States of America, signed November 26, 2007, by Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Bush. 
   Under the Declaration of Principles, the parties will negotiate a security agreement, under which the United States will support the Iraqi government and Security Forces in providing security and stability and fighting al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The Declaration of Principles envisions an agreement setting forth a wide-ranging set of commitments, which will cover issues including politics, economics, and security. In hearings before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, administration officials have indicated that the President intends to negotiate this agreement as an executive agreement, not subject to Congressional approval. It is essential that any agreement which commits future U.S. troops to the defense of Iraq is outside the purview of existing authorizations, and such an agreement must be submitted to the Congress for approval. This legislation also prohibits the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, amendment No. 2 requires that the Iraqi government step up and pay its share of Iraqi reconstruction efforts. I am concerned that the United States has paid and continues to pay a disproportionate amount for Iraq reconstruction, especially when the Iraqi government reportedly has a $25-30 billion budget surplus this year. To date the United States has appropriated more than $45 billion for Iraq reconstruction. 
   American funded reconstruction programs have included: the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces. 
   Iraq is a resource-rich nation. Though still facing problems including a lack of technology, damage from previous mismanagement, the effects of looting, and water intrusion, Iraqi oil production is currently at around 2 million barrels per day. The price of oil has skyrocketed to over $100 a barrel and Iraqi oil exports are generating an estimated $56.4 billion this year alone, according to the GAO, yet it is U.S. taxpayers who continue to foot the bill for Iraqi reconstruction. The government of Iraq is stashing its money in global banks, including a reported $30 billion in the U.S., instead of investing this money in the development of crucial Iraqi infrastructure. This legislation requires the Iraqi government to take responsibility for the future of its own nation. 
   There are a number of other key provisions in this amendment. It requires the President to reach an agreement with Iraq to subsidize fuel costs for U.S. Armed Forces operating in Iraq so that our military pays what Iraqis pay. It requires that troop's meet the Pentagon's definition of combat ready before they are deployed to Iraq; Prohibits troops from being deployed longer than Pentagon guidelines recommend; and requires that troops spend adequate time at home between deployments. This legislation makes substantial strides toward cleaning up contracting in Iraq, expanding current law to make all contractors working in war zones subject to prosecution for offenses that would otherwise be in violation of U.S. law; extending the statute of limitations for fraud cases during wartime; and amending the federal criminal code to prohibit profiteering and fraud involving contractors overseas. In addition, it prohibits interrogation techniques not authorized in the Army Field Manual, a provision necessary in eliminating torture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AMERICAN VOICES HAVE BEEN HEARD -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to announce to the American people that their voices have been heard. 
   Today, this House voted down the $180 billion war funding bill that the President requested. It is time now for Americans to be heard and for this Congress to move forward on the safe redeployment of our troops. 
   In addition, Mr. Speaker, I offered amendments to declare the authorization of 2002 expired. I hope we will address that question and to announce or to establish a national day of honor in celebration to bring our troops home. 
   With the utilization of the $180 billion, we can begin an economic stimulus package that would include the work that the Congressional Black Caucus and Majority WHIP CLYBURN and myself have been supporting, and that is to provide for $1 billion or $500 million for summer job programs. 
   This is an emergency. Our young people are finding the doors of opportunity  closed. Many of them support their families. They need money for books. We need a summer job program. With the defeat of this $180 billion spending program for the war, we can do better. 
   The war should end. We've defeated the spending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LUMBEE RECOGNITION ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 65, a bill which extends Federal recognition to the Lumbee tribe of North Carolina. This bipartisan legislation, which has more than 215 cosponsors, including Natural Resources Committee Chairman RAHALL and Ranking Member YOUNG, corrects a 50-year injustice and gives long overdue Federal recognition to one of the oldest Indian tribes in the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Lumbee tribe has made repeated requests to Congress for recognition since 1888, and the voluminous record compiled by Congress shows that Federal recognition has been unfairly delayed. H.R. 65 simply provides equal treatment to the Lumbee tribe by correcting a half-measure adopted by Congress in 1956 regarding the tribe. The 1956 half-measure acknowledged the Lumbees as Indians but cut off the tribe from the Federal statutes that apply to federally recognized tribes. This injustice was done at the height of Indian Federal termination policy. 
   Every other tribe subjected by Congress to such a half-measure has since been fully recognized by a special act of Congress. H.R. 65 would do the same thing for the Lumbee tribe. Thus, H.R. 65 is a long overdue act of justice that treats the Lumbee tribe just like every other tribe in its position. 
   There is no question that the Lumbee Indians constitute an Indian tribe. The State of North Carolina has consistently recognized the tribe since 1885 under a series of State statutes using different names to refer to the tribe. In 1952, the tribe held a referendum to decide upon its own name under State law and adopted the name Lumbee, drawn from the name of river where the tribe was found at the time of first White contact in the 1730s. North Carolina amended its law to recognize the tribe under the name Lumbee in 1953, and the same bill was introduced in Congress to obtain Federal recognition under the same name. Before the Federal bill was enacted, though, Congress amended the bill to include termination language. As a result, Congress recognized and terminated the tribe at the same time in 1956. Because of the 1956 half-measure, the Solicitor General has ruled that the Lumbee tribe is not eligible for the tribal recognition process administered by the Department of the Interior. 
   Mr. Speaker, in any case, there is no need to study the tribe's history; the Department of the Interior has already done so 11 times in response to numerous bills to recognize the tribe and has always concluded that the Lumbees are Indian, descended principally from the aboriginal Cheraw tribe. And the Department's own records show that the modern-day Lumbees are the same Indians first recognized by the State of North Carolina in 1885. 
   Congress itself put the Lumbee tribe in the Indian ``No Man's Land'' with the enactment of the 1956 half-measure. In the past, Congress has done this to two other tribes: the Tiwas of Texas and the Pascua Yaqui of Arizona. In both cases, Congress rectified the injustice by enacting special statutes extending full Federal recognition to the tribes. Congress should perform a similar act of simple justice for the Lumbee tribe by enacting H.R. 65. 
   The recognition of an Indian tribe by the United States has always ultimately been congressional responsibility. Even though the Department of the Interior established an administrative process for recognition of tribes in 1978, over the past 30 years Congress has recognized nine tribes by special legislation where there were special circumstances. Insofar as the Lumbee tribe is concerned, the 1956 half-measure represents a special circumstance. H.R. 65 is long-overdue legislative remedy for the injustice inflicted on the Lumbee tribe 50 years ago by Congress. 
   For these reasons, I support H.R. 65 and urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this remedial legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is a very personal debate, and it is a serious one. But I would only ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to entertain the thought that we are, today, addressing the lives of Americans, and we can't fool around with life and death issues that impact on the lives of Americans. Millions of Americans today, a collective number of 110 million, are dealing with the diseases of diabetes, Alzheimer's, some with spinal cord injuries, and many others impacted by the inertia of this body. And so let me applaud my colleague, Congresswoman DeGette, because this legislation, as my colleagues realize, is imperative for it to move as S. 5, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. We know that if this bill does not pass, it does not get to the President's desk, and lives of millions of Americans will be impacted. It is a simple bill. It says that ``the stem cells were derived from human embryos that are donated from in vitro fertilization clinics for the purpose of fertility treatment and were in excess of the needs of individuals seeking such treatment. The embryos would never be implanted in a woman and would otherwise be discarded. Such individuals donate the embryos with written informed consent, and receive no financial aid or other inducements.'' These embryos otherwise would be discarded. 
   What is our challenge in America? To rise to our higher angels? 
   This rule is constructed to save lives. Our friends will have the privilege of a motion to recommit, but we have the responsibility of saving the lives of 110 million Americans, children, family members of yours, loved ones, husbands and wives and others. Some are our soldiers on the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan. We can do no less today. Pass S. 5. Vote for the rule, and vote against the motion to recommit.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 5, the ``Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007,'' which the House passed in substantially similar form by a vote of 253-174 on January 11, 2007. The legislation passed the Senate by a nearly veto-proof majority of 63-34. The only difference between the version passed by the House and the Senate is that  the Senate version contains a provision directing the Secretary of HHS to conduct and support research on alternative human pluripotent stem cells. 
   Mr. Speaker, once again we find ourselves in a position to pass legislation that will provide our nation's scientists with the valuable opportunity to save lives. It is our duty as representatives of the people to help Americans who are suffering. The President should put away his veto pen and listen to the American people. They want him to sign this bill. Signing this bill will help bring about the new direction in leadership and responsiveness that American people voted for last November. 
   In 1998, the very first stem cells were isolated, leading to the immediate realization of the enormous possibilities this discovery presents. Suddenly treatments, even cures, seemed possible for devastating illnesses like Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), cancer, and spinal cord injuries. 
   Despite restrictions on federal funding imposed by President Bush in 2001, the states of California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Illinois, and Maryland have provided funding for this important research. In 2005 and again last year, we learned that in spite of the President's continued opposition to stem cell research, support for it in Congress transcended party lines. 
   Unfortunately, the embryonic stem cells currently permitted by law for research are not sufficient for scientists' needs. According to the National Institute of Health (NIH), of more than 60 stem cell lines that were declared eligible for federal funding in 2001, only about 22 lines are actually available for study by and distribution to researchers. These NIH-approved lines lack the genetic diversity that researchers need in order to develop effective treatments for millions of Americans. 
   In spite of recent scientific breakthroughs that suggest alternate means of obtaining stem cells, I must caution my colleagues from thinking that embryonic stem cell research is no longer necessary. I applaud Dr. Anthony Atala and his team at Wake Forest University and Harvard University for their very recent outstanding discoveries. However, I must repeat the caution of Harvard researcher George Daley in saying that these newly discovered cells ``are not a replacement for embryonic stem cells''--on the contrary, research for these is entirely complementary. In addition, while we know very little about these new methods, much progress has already been made in the research of embryonic, or pluripotent, stem cells, the most adaptable and unique of all the stem cell varieties. They currently provide scientists with the most possibilities for research and for the discovery of life-saving treatments; as such, we must allow these scientists the opportunity to do so. 
   It is understandable that many Americans may have moral conflicts with this issue if they believe that embryos need to be destroyed in order for this research to be implemented, but this is not the case. It is estimated that more than 400,000 excess frozen embryos exist in the United States today and that tens of thousands, and perhaps as many as 100,000, are discarded every year. 
   Further, S. 5 ensures that none of the embryos used in stem cell research is intended for implantation in a woman. All of these embryos would otherwise be discarded. Mr. Speaker, denying people in our nation who suffer from debilitating illnesses the possible medical benefits that could result from embryonic research is not only cruel but a waste of these valuable life-sustaining stem cells. 
   This is indeed a matter of ethics--we cannot morally argue that it is better to deny suffering people hope for a cure. Let us provide all people in this world with possibilities for a better future by supporting stem cell research. Let us create the potential for miracles in the lives of paralyzed individuals, those with cancer, or those in need of organ transplants. 
   This bill provides a limited--yet significant--change in current policy that would result in making many more lines of stem cells available for research. If we limit the opportunities and resources our researchers have today, we only postpone the inevitable breakthrough. Our vote today may determine whether that breakthrough is made by Americans, or not. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill, to vote in favor of scientific innovation, and to vote in favor of a perfect compromise between the needs of science and the boundary of our principles.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, this place, this House is always at its best when Members of the United States Congress work together. And I want to congratulate the chairwoman of this committee and the ranking member of this committee for working together. 
   Most people don't understand that the legislative branch creates an atmosphere of hospitality in this place. As I look and see the number of visitors that we have, your responsibility is to secure them and to welcome them. Let me thank you personally for the task that you have undertaken. 
   I want to thank you for the increase in the House Child Care Center, and I hope that our community does not criticize the fact that we are family friendly so that employees have the opportunity to have child care. 
   I want to thank you for supporting the Speaker's Green Initiative because we, too, must do what we ask Americans to do. 
   And, of course, the brave men and women that serve us, I welcome the increase in the Capitol Police, and I also look forward to their continuing to address the questions of discrimination and equality as they increase the numbers of police. 
   Let me join in the words of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton and hope that we will challenge, if you will, the GAO to be responsible in its dealings with its employees and unionization. 
   But I came today to be able to offer to the American public the sense of pride and the sense of humbleness that I am now experiencing because of your grand leadership and that of the Appropriations Committee. And my good friend Congressman Jesse Jackson and, of course, members of the Congressional Black Caucus signed a letter, which I was proud to sign, because this picture reflects something that is near and dear to Texas. 
   My good friend comes from Tennessee. He knows that we have a lot of continuity or connection between Tennessee and Texas and the good State of Florida. 
   But we celebrated this week the Emancipation Proclamation. We celebrated, in particular, Juneteenth. Those of us in the South remember Major General Gordon Granger coming 2 years late to indicate that we might be free. Isn't it wonderful that now we will name the Visitors Center, and we hope for our good friends in the other body to be as reasonable, the Emancipation Hall. 
   I went through the hall just outside this door before I came to the floor, and I saw the name of William Jennings Bryan. I saw the name Wheeler of Alabama, Huey Pierce Long, Lew Wallace, Sequoyah, Sam Houston.     
   I met a woman who told me about her grandfather, Levi Coffin, who had helped slaves in the Underground Railroad. Her name was Ms. Holt. She was just standing there talking to me. 
   That's what naming the Emancipation Hall means to America. It reflects the wholeness of America, the wonderment of our history, the dignity of our history. Yes, slaves built this place, but all Americans will be able to go into Emancipation Hall, and it will symbolize the freedom of this Nation. I am so grateful that we have come to this place at this time. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, Emancipation Hall.  
   Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2771, the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act of 2008 and to commend Chairwoman Wasserman Schultz for her leadership in shepherding this bill though the legislative process. This legislation funds the House, Senate and various entities in the legislative branch, including the Library of Congress, the Capitol Police, the Government Accountability Office, and the Government Printing Office. 
   But it does more than that, Madam Chairman. The bill provides funding for ``Greening the Capitol'' to reduce carbon emissions from the operations of House buildings and the Capitol. It makes the necessary investments for critical health and safety needs by funding security upgrades and addressing health hazards and safety requirements in law. In short, this legislation demonstrates a commitment by the new Democratic majority to increased oversight, accountability and fiscal responsibility. 
   H.R. 2771 appropriates $3.1 billion for legislative branch entities, including $1.2 billion for House operations and $1.9 billion for legislative branch agencies and other offices. The total provided is $275.7 million (8 percent) less than requested by legislative offices and agencies and only $122.2 million (4 percent) more than comparable FY 2007 funding. Nearly 25 percent of this increased funding is directly attributable to costs associated with the 2008 presidential election and subsequent inauguration. 
   Following the long-established practice that each house of Congress determines its own housekeeping requirements without interference from the other body, the bill contains no funding for Senate operations. The bill appropriates $1.2 billion for operations of the House of Representatives, which is $36.5 million (3 percent) less than requested, but $54.1 million (5 percent) more than current funding. 
   The total for the House includes $581 million for members' offices, also known as MRA's, 5 percent more than current funding, but 5 percent less than requested and $162.8 million for House committees, 8 percent more than current funding and 4 percent more than requested. The bill also provides $169.4 million for the various House officers and employees, including the Clerk of the House, the Sergeant at Arms, and the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO), 8 percent more than current funding, but 3 percent less than requested. 
   H.R. 2771 provides $21.1 million for joint House-Senate items, 13 percent less than current funding and 23 percent less than requested, when the recent June 8 supplemental request for the Capitol guides is taken into account. The appropriated amount includes $9.4 million for the Joint Committee on Taxation, 7 percent more than current funding.  
   Madam Chairman, H.R. 2771 provides a total of $1.9 billion for other offices and legislative branch agencies that directly or indirectly support congressional operations. This funding is $71.2 million (4 percent) more than current levels but $232.8 million (11 percent) less than requested. Among the agencies this bill funds are the Architect of the Capitol; the Capitol Police; the Library of Congress; the Government 
   Printing Office, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Government Accountability Office. 
   For the Architect of the Capitol, the bill provides $348.4 million, 9 percent less than current funding and 12 percent less than requested. Included in the bill is $27.5 million for the Capital Visitors Center. I cite with particular approval that the bill renames the center's Great Hall as ``Emancipation Hall'' in remembrance of the slave labor that created this mighty edifice. 
   Earlier this week, the House passed H. Con. Res. 155, which recognized the historical significance of June 19, 1865, or ``Juneteenth,'' the oldest known celebration of the ending of slavery. On June 19, 1865, Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, landed at Galveston, TX, with news that the war had ended and that all slaves were now free. But this was 2 1/2 years after President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation--which had become official January 1, 1863. 
   Madam Chairman, I suppose it may just be another irony of life that the U.S. Capitol was rebuilt during the Civil War and completed around the time of Juneteenth. This magnificent symbol of democracy, freedom, and equality could not have been brought in to being without the blood and sweat and unrequited toil of slave labor. For much of our history the contributions to our country by slaves and their descendants has not been fully acknowledged. But in renaming the Great Hall to the Capitol Visitor Center as ``Emancipation Hall,'' we begin to rectify this error. It is a wonderful thing we are doing. 
   The bill also provides $3.9 million to implement the ``Green the Capitol'' initiative, including $2.7 for shifting from coal to natural gas for heating in the Capitol power plant, and the report requires the House CAO to purchase carbon credits. The bill also requires the hiring of an inspector general. 
   The bill provides the Capitol Police $286 million, which is $13.1 million (4 percent) less than requested, but $20.3 million (8 percent) more than current funding. The Library of Congress is slated to receive $572.5 million, $63.8 million (13 percent) more than the current level, but $89.1 million (13 percent) less than requested. There is $125.8 million for the Government Printing Office; $37.8 million for the Congressional Budget Office (CBO); and $503.3 million in net funding for the Government Accountability Office (GAO). The bill does not contain any earmarks as defined under House rules. 
   To conclude, Madam Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2771 because it makes the necessary investments for critical health and safety needs by funding security upgrades and addressing health and safety hazards. I support this legislation because it reflects the commitment by the new Democratic majority to increased oversight, accountability and fiscal responsibility. 
   I thank Chairwoman WASSERMAN SCHULTZ for her fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (BAIL BOND FAIRNESS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2286, the ``Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2007.'' I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to report this legislation favorably to the House. I am confident that working together we can address and resolve the real challenges regarding bail bond practices in the Federal judiciary. 
   H.R. 2286 reforms the current practice of placing performance-based pretrial release conditions on bail bonds. This practice apparently has had the unintended consequence of prompting some commercial bond underwriters to avoid the Federal system and placing a heavy risk on family and friends of defendants who would collateralize property to satisfy a bond. As a result, many defendants are being incarcerated pending disposition of their criminal cases who would otherwise not be confined. 
   H.R. 2286 restores bail bonds to their historic purpose by prohibiting the forfeiture of a bail bond in all situations except for a defendant's failure to appear. It does this by amending Rule 46(f)(1) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure by striking ``a condition of the bond is breached'' and inserting ``the defendant fails to appear physically before the court.'' The bill, however, preserves a judge's ability to revoke a defendant's bail status and order pretrial detention should a defendant violate any condition of pretrial release. 
   Mr. Speaker, to better understand the problems in the Federal bail bond system and to evaluate the efficacy of the H.R. 2286, this subcommittee held a legislative hearing at which we heard from an impressive panel of witnesses, which included: The Hon. ROBERT WEXLER, Congressman, Florida 19th District; the Hon. RIC KELLER, Congressman, Florida 8th District; Ms. Linda Braswell, MCBA, Braswell Surety Services, Inc., Stuart, Florida; and Hon. Tommy E. Miller, Magistrate, United States District Court, Eastern Virginia. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is important for us to remember that the right to bail is guaranteed by the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Historically, the sole purpose of affording bail to a defendant is to ensure the defendant's appearance in court. In recent years, however, Federal judges have taken to merging the purposes of bail with other conditions of release and in many cases have been ordering bonds forfeited even in cases in which the defendant actually appears in court as ordered. The bail is ordered forfeited by the court upon a determination by the court that the defendant failed to comply with some collateral condition of release. 
   In support of these forfeiture determinations judges rely on Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 46(f) as authority. For example, if the defendant uses illegal drugs, fails to maintain a job, travels beyond a certain area, the defendant's bail may be revoked, and the defendant returned to jail and the bond forfeited. 
   Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 46(f) has been upheld by the courts against challenge. For example, in United States v. Vaccaro, 51 F.3d 189 (9th Cir. 1995), the court held that the rule 46(f) authorized bond forfeiture for violation of collateral conditions of release and not simply for failure to appear. Moreover, courts have cited congressional failure to act to change this ruling as ratification that it is correct.  
   Mr. Speaker, the consequences of forfeiting bond as a method of monitoring a defendant's performance rather than for its historically narrowly tailored purpose are several. First, because bond writers are forced to consider the defendant's performance and behavior while on pretrial release, the risk to bond agents has increased dramatically, forcing them to adhere to strict underwriting guidelines. The strict guidelines adversely and disproportionately affect poor and disadvantaged defendants by exacerbating the difficulty in obtaining pretrial release. This means, of course, that only defendants with significant assets are afforded the benefits of pretrial release. Poor defendants are therefore incarcerated before conviction, even those who pose no significant risk of flight and no threat to the public. 
   Second, family members of the defendant or anyone willing to raise collateral to help procure a bail bond for a loved one are also put at undue risk. This is because a person who puts up his or her home or other assets as collateral may nevertheless lose their property even if the defendant attends court appearances and is not a threat to the 
   community. Thus, fewer friends and family are willing to assist in procuring a bond and those who do may unjustly lose their assets. 
   Mr. Speaker, a third unintended consequence of this practice of bail forfeiture for collateral pre-trial release violations places an undue financial burden and physical strain on the prison system. Last, revoking a defendant's bond for performance issue such as unemployment reduces considerably a defendant's incentive to make court appearances. Consequently, bond revocation for a performance matter has created a flight risk of a defendant who otherwise may not have been. 
   In short, placing performance-based conditions on a bail bond strays from the historic purpose of a bail bond, which is to ensure the appearance of a defendant before the court as ordered. The avowed intent of H.R. 2286, sponsored by Congressman Wexler, is to restore bail bonds to their historic purpose by prohibiting the forfeiture of a bail bond in all situations except for a defendant's failure to appear. 
   It does this by amending Rule 46(f)(1) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure by striking ``a condition of the bond is breached'' and inserting ``the defendant fails to appear physically before the court.'' The bill, however, preserves a judge's ability to revoke a defendant's bail status and order pretrial detention should a defendant violate any condition of pretrial release. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all members to support this much needed and thoughtful legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING JACK VALENTI -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in proud support of H. Res. 361, as offered by my distinguished colleague from California and chair of the Congressional Entertainment Caucus, Congresswoman DIANE WATSON. This resolution recognizes and honors the life and lifetime accomplishments of Jack Valenti, while also expressing condolences of the House of Representatives to his family on his death. Having served as a long-  time president of the Motion Picture Association of America, Jack Valenti deserves no better tribute than that of being honored by members of the United States Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, Jack Valenti began his political career during the era of the ``Great Society.'' He briefly served as the first special assistant to President Lyndon B. Johnson during his tenure in the White House. However, he resigned from the White House commission In 1966, when he respectfully earned the position as President of the Motion Picture Association of America. Nevertheless, public admiration of this prominent young man followed him from his tenure in politics, unto his career in the film industry and thereafter. 
   Jack Valenti was born in Houston, Texas on September 5, 1921. During the era of World War II, Mr. Valenti served as a lieutenant in the United States Army Air Corps, flying 51 combat missions as the pilot-commander of a B-25 attack bomber. It was also at this time that he received four decorations--the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with four clusters, the Distinguished Unit Citation with one cluster, as well as the European Theater Ribbon with four battle stars. 
   His educational attainments are marked with his graduation from high school at the age of 15, the youngest high school graduate in his city. He took several years hiatus to work in the field of oil and gas, as well as to serve his Nation as a pilot in the Army Air Corps. He later went on to earn a Bachelors of Arts degree from the University of Houston, where he worked full-time during the day and attended undergraduate courses at night. He continued to advance his education by obtaining a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard University. In 1952, Valenti assisted in the co-founding of an advertising/political consulting agency. It was this agency that led the press during President John F. Kennedy and Vice-President Lyndon B. Johnson's Dallas, Texas visit in 1963. 
   Valenti's legacy is prevalent through his invention of the movie/film rating, which is still used today. Such a vision and innovation not only transformed the movie industry, but also provided guidance for families, protection for children moviegoers and their parents, as well as safeguard for our filmmakers. 
   Mr. Speaker, among many things, it will be the vision and character of Mr. Jack Valenti that will greatly be missed. Rarely are we given the opportunities to recognize and honor the lifetime accomplishments of our American heroes, as well have today. For this reason, I ask my colleagues to rise and join me in honoring the life and lifetime accomplishments of the late Jack Valenti. We who knew and loved him will always remember him as a gentleman, a man with boundless energy, a leader in our Nation, a wartime hero, a proud father and a loving husband, a political consultant, and a movie industry powerhouse. He was one in a million and will greatly be missed. 
   Today, I ask that we join in recognizing Valenti as one of the greatest contributors to the motion picture industry and honoring him for his service, accomplishments, and contributions to our Nation. I also ask that we extend our deepest condolences to his family--wife, Margaret, and children, Alexandra, John and Courtenay. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DECEPTIVE PRACTICES AND VOTER INTIMIDATION PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1281, the Deceptive Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act of 2007. H.R. 1281 will hopefully go a long way in addressing a variety of election irregularities that have arisen in recent elections, including deceptive practices, voter intimidation, voter disenfranchisement, and an overall lack of trust in the electoral process. 
   Mr. Speaker, protecting the right to vote of all Americans is of paramount importance to me. The most fundamental aspect of American citizenship is the right to vote and to have full confidence that the vote is counted. Thousands of people have bled and died for the right to vote and their sacrifices shall not be in vain. Whenever this body is presented with inquiries to determine whether our voting system has been compromised in any manner, we have a solemn duty to investigate such matters. 
   As many of you know, election reform became a central issue in the wake of the irregularities identified in Florida in the 2000 Presidential Election. In June 2001, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, an independent bipartisan agency charged with monitoring and protecting voting rights, reported that ``credible evidence shows many Floridians were denied the right to vote.'' After analyzing the 179,855 ballots that were invalidated, and finding that fifty-three percent (53%) were cast by black voters, the Commission concluded that in Florida, African-Americans were 10 times as likely to have a vote rejected as a white voter. This concern helped lead to the passage in 2002 of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). The Judiciary Committee held hearings on the legislation, and members of our Committee participated in the Conference Committee. Since the enaction of HAVA, concern about deceptive practices and election irregularities have not abated. There have been numerous published reports about these incidents in both the 2004 and 2006 elections. There are also a number of reported incidents that were not addressed by the HAVA legislation. These include the following: 
   Ohio--There were numerous reported irregularities in Ohio in the 2004 election, which led me to conduct a review and issue a much-cited report entitled, ``What Went Wrong in Ohio.'' The irregularities identified included: 
   1. Newly registered voters in Lake County received letters informing them that their registrations were illegal and that they would be unable to vote. The letter was sent on falsified Lake County Board of Elections letterhead. 
   2. An elderly couple living on the North Side of Columbus received a call informing them that their polling place had changed and that they should vote ``on the other side of town.'' The caller claimed to be a representative of the Franklin County Board of Elections. When the elderly couple called the board to verify the change, they learned that others in the area had received deceptive phone calls, including offers to hand-deliver absentee ballots to the Board of Elections office. 
   3. The misallocation of voting machines led to lines of 10 hours or more that disenfranchised scores if not hundreds of thousands of predominantly minority voters. In Franklin County, 27 of the 30 wards with the most machines per registered voter showed majorities for Bush, while 6 of the 
   7 wards with the fewest machines delivered large margins for Kerry. 
   4. Then-Secretary of State Kenneth Blackwell's decision to restrict provisional ballots resulted in the purging of tens if not hundreds of thousands of voters. In Hamilton County, this resulted in the result where hundreds of voters who showed up at the right polling place, but were directed to the wrong table by election workers, had their ballots thrown out. 
   5. Mr. Blackwell's rejected voter registration applications based on paper weight. Ironically, forms obtained from the Secretary of State's office did not comply with his own paper weight directive. 
   6. Preelection ``caging'' tactics, selectively targeting 35,000 predominantly minority voters for intimidation. The Third Circuit has previously found these activities to be illegal and indirect violation of consent decrees barring the targeting of minority voters for poll challenges. 
   North Carolina--In 2004, more than 4,500 votes were lost because of a mistake in voting machine capacity. In Carteret County, these votes were lost because officials believed that a computer that stored ballots electronically could hold more data than it did. 
   Louisiana--In 2002, flyers stating voters may cast their ballots 3 days after the election ``if the weather is bad,'' were distributed in public housing complexes in New Orleans. 
   South Dakota--In 2004 in South Dakota, Native American voters were prevented from  voting for failing to provide photographic identification upon request, despite the lack of such requirements under state or federal law. 
   Arizona--Latino voters in Pima County, Arizona were reportedly met at multiple polling places with a man who claimed he was ``bent on discovering'' how many illegal immigrants were voting in the 2004 primary election. Dressed in a black shirt with the image of a badge and the words ``U.S. Constitution Enforcement'' on his back, the man carried a camera and video recorder holstered in a tool belt as he entered polling places, looking for ``anomalies.'' 
   Wisconsin--In the days leading up to the 2004 presidential election, voters in Milwaukee's African American neighborhoods received flyers from the fictional ``Milwaukee Black Voters League.'' The flier falsely claimed that individuals could be found ineligible to vote due to traffic violations, the criminal records of family members and voting in a previous election during the year.'' Voters were also warned that violations of such ``laws'' could result in a ten-year prison sentence or forced separation from one's children. 
   Virginia--Voters in eight Virginia counties were apparent victims 
   of attempts at intimidation just before the 2006 election. Some received messages from callers claiming to be from the non-existent ``Virginia Elections Commission,'' telling them of incorrect voter registration information and possible criminal charges for voting. Other callers falsely claimed to represent a federal campaign and told voters that their polling places had changed, sometimes to addresses that did not exist. 
   California--In 2006, Latino voters in Orange County, California, received mailings from the ``California Coalition for Immigration Reform,'' falsely warning them in Spanish that ``if you are an immigrant, voting in a federal election is a crime that can result in incarceration.'' 
   Maryland--In 2006 certain candidates distributed fliers in predominantly African-American neighborhoods falsely claiming that the candidates had been endorsed by their opponents' party and by prominent African American figures. 
   Florida--In 2004, over 4,000 potential voters, including students at the University of Florida and Florida A&M University, discovered their party registrations had been switched and their addresses changed. Changed addresses could have barred them from voting because they would have shown up at the wrong polling place. 
   Pennsylvania--In Pittsburgh, fliers printed on county letterhead stated that ``due to immense voter turnout expected on Tuesday,'' the election had been extended: Republicans vote on November 2, and Democrats vote on November 3. Across the country, voters received similar fliers in the 2004 presidential election. 
   1. Pennsylvania and Illinois/Abusive Robo-Calls--The media also detailed numerous instances of prerecorded phone calls designed to confuse voters. These misleading calls were made late in the evening, or during the night, in an apparent effort to generate anger at particular candidates. According to the Associated Press, one individual ``received three prerecorded messages in four hours. Each began, `Hello, I'm calling with information about [candidate] Lois Murphy [in the Philadelphia area].' '' The Philadelphia Daily News reported that ``[t]he calls, which begin by offering `important information about Lois Murphy,' are designed to mislead voters into thinking the message is from her.'' In Illinois, The Barrington Courier-Review reported that a resident received the following phone call--``Hi. I'm calling with information about [Candidate] Melissa Bean.'' She received the same call a total of 21 times since October 24. Others reported receiving the same calls, none of which were paid for by Ms. Bean's campaign. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 1281 to make the necessary changes that will ensure the highest level of voter integrity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ESTABLISHING A WELCOME HOME VIETNAM VETERANS DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 189, which puts the House on record in support of a ``Welcome Home Vietnam Veteran's Day.'' This resolution honors members of the United States Armed Forces who fought in Vietnam from 1961 to 1975. In 1982, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial was dedicated in the District of Columbia to commemorate those members of the United States Armed Forces who died or were declared missing-in-action in Vietnam. March 30 would be an appropriate day to establish as Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day. 
   More than 3 million Americans served in Vietnam, and nearly 58,000 lost their lives there. From mountain peaks to tropical rainforest, American soldiers served in hostile country and fought a war for which they were not trained. It was a war of savage, small-unit fighting unlike any other in American history and in a stunning outcome, American soldiers won all of the major battles. About 58,148 men were killed, mostly between the ages of 20 and 29, but some as young as 16 years old. About 2.9 million men in total were involved in the fighting. The average soldier--infantryman--saw about 240 days of combat in 4 years, thanks to the mobility of the helicopter. 
   As an American, I am very proud of the courageous members of the United States Armed Forces who fought in this war, even though they were not sure of the purpose, to help stop what seemed to be the spreading of Communist beliefs and values. I am more than grateful to the men who gave so that we would be able to live as free as we do today. These men were brave, high spirited, and fearless. These men did something that most Americans never had to do. They risked life and limb in defense of their countrymen. They deserve to be honored for their efforts. 
   This resolution gives credit where credit is due. It will give Americans a chance to reflect on the men, women, and their stories that were short changed during this difficult time in our history.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IT IS TIME TO BRING OUR TROOPS HOME FROM IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as we begin to commemorate and celebrate the founding of this Nation, what a great Nation, July 4 brings all Americans together. We stand strong. We are bold and we are proud. I am proud to be an American. 
   But I petition this government, this Congress, this President that we must resolve the Iraq crisis. Our soldiers are defined as they are, warriors for justice. But when you have a complete collapse of government, as was evidenced in the last 24 hours, suicide bombs, car bombs, an enormous toil and toll of lives being taken, our soldiers emerged in neighborhoods, sitting as sitting ducks, it is time to bring our troops home. And as long as we remain tone deaf to the American people, we undermine the values of this Nation that indicates we all are created equal. 
   It is time to bring our troops home from Iraq. It is time for a new policy and a new direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. It is a delight to be here with all of my colleagues, and I might say that it is a pleasure to jump in and to accept the glory of the 30-something once in a while, particularly on this very vital and important issue. 
   And I want to say to the distinguished gentleman from Ohio, having watched the Ohio election process; if there was a State that spoke loudly about a decided necessity of change, it certainly was Ohio, and the rest of us followed. And I can't imagine that we would be facing this budget but for mistakes and missteps that have been made in foreign policy, for example the Iraq war and funding that has been somewhat misplaced. 
   But the good news is, and that is what I wanted to just focus on for a moment, that we now have the opportunity; Speaker Pelosi, the leadership, Chairman Dingell, Chairman Waxman on the health issues, we now have an opportunity to address the American people and to, frankly, make sure that we listen. 
   I want to start very briefly on tracking the reauthorization of the Ryan White bill that was authorized in the last Congress. But an authorization goes nowhere unless there is, if you will, the funding that is necessary. And so I just wanted to briefly highlight the fact that we have a continuing AIDS crisis in the United States which really requires a focused and concerted effort at funding. And I don't believe that with the President's budget, these enormous tax cuts, we will be able to address the fact that there are now over 1 million people in the United States living with AIDS, and that particular communities, African Americans and Hispanics, are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS, and they account for nearly 50 percent of the people living with HIV/AIDS. 
   That means that we need more Federal funds made available to help in the minority health initiatives, the AIDS initiatives, and we need more funds to encourage testing for as many people as possible. So I cite that as a challenge to this budget that is going to impact many of us extremely negatively. 
   Then I would encourage my colleagues from the various States, 50 States, to take a litmus test or to take a thermometer and measure the temperature of the President's budget against the health of your State. 
   Let me just share with you what is going to happen to the State of Texas. We have a sizable young population, the State of Texas. Most of our population is under the age of 25; we have an extensive population of under 5, and we need, if you will, a refocus on the domestic agenda for this country. 
   I am looking forward to Chairman Spratt's, the Budget Committee's reforming of the President's budget because this is what will happen to Texas: Two million Texans could see  retirement benefits cut under the President's privatization proposal that is in his budget. And I would simply ask the question, how many times do we have to say that privatization of Social Security will not work? And it will not work. 
   The President's health care proposal will squeeze Texas middle class of more cost and less coverage. So the President's health insurance proposal, which is opposed by my public health system, Harris County, who says, ``Are you trying to close our doors?'' We will see a squeeze on the middle class; 5.5 million uninsured in the State of Texas will be impacted. 
   Let me give three other points. Huge Medicare cuts which we are seeing in the President's budget would endanger 2.5 million Texan Medicare beneficiaries' access to quality care and impose new taxes on seniors. The one thing our seniors said on the prescription benefit part D, no more burdens, no more doughnut holes. And that is what the President's budget gives us. 
   In addition, one of the greatest tragedies of the President's budget is the cut in the State grants for children's health insurance could add some 1.4 million children to the uninsured ranks in Texas. Now, they say that they are going to leave this to the States. The States need to find out how to handle this. This is, this is, this is comedic. This is joking. This is completely impossible. I am lacking for words. We are fighting in our State to be able to insure children who need to be insured, and you are telling us we will give you, the State, a certain amount of money, and it is how you do it. It is not how we do it. We can't do it without the funding. So you are going to deepen the hole of health disparities by suggesting that we cut off 1.4 million uninsured children in the State of Texas. 
   I would ask my colleagues to check the temperature of their State by taking a thermometer and measuring the President's budget against the needs of the American people. In Texas, 1.6 million veterans could be hurt by VA funding shortfalls. And I spent time with homeless veterans in my community at stand-down. I have homeless veterans in shelters in my community, as many of us do, but I see many of my homeless veterans under our bridges. We can't afford any more cuts in veterans health coverage because they are already paying the maximum amount. 
   Let me conclude by suggesting that we likewise have made a commitment, 30-something and 30-something-plus, have made a commitment to America's youth. We want to ensure that the doors of our institutions are open. And just today I heard the fact that in our own community in Houston, we don't enough seats in colleges to be able to help educate young people. This may be a phenomenon across American in many communities, and that means we are closing the door to higher education to our children. Well, the budget that the President has put forward, aid for Texas college students, may be whacked again; and, therefore, tuition increases may go up almost 100 percent, because under State laws that we have in the State of Texas, we give that latitude to our universities. Our students cannot be whacked again, and they can't take the burden again. 
   So I am hoping that, in addition to cutting the Department of Homeland Security, which we will obviously not tolerate because we are certainly not, we have not met the test of the 9/11 Commission Report, this budget needs fixing, it needs a fixing, and we need to rally around the American people's voice of health care, education, security, and the environment and affordable energy before we allow this budget to come to the floor of this House. And I hope that we will have the opportunity to be able to work our will, the will of the American people, and work our will on behalf of seniors, on behalf of those suffering with AIDS in minority populations and other, on behalf of the working middle-class families that struggle every day, that we would choose them over outrageous tax cuts that have been proposed by this President's budget. 
   And I thank the distinguished gentlemen for allowing me to participate and to acknowledge that these policies are not family-friendly. And I look forward to a budget coming to this floor that we pass, the majority, Democrats, with our friends on the other side of the aisle, that will be family-friendly, children-friendly, those who are suffering from various diseases, education-friendly, environment-friendly, and certainly a new day in energy by the budget that we put forward on this floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE AFRICAN AMERICAN SPIRITUAL AS A NATIONAL TREASURE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 120, to recognize the African American spiritual as a national treasure. 
   When slavery was introduced into the European colonies in 1619, the dark days that followed ignited the faith and hope of our ancestors that one day their descendants would live in freedom and helped them bear the unbearable burden of bondage. 
   To help our ancestors tolerate the incorrigible injustices they suffered as slaves, they gathered together in unity and sang spiritual songs. Their strong faith in God was displayed through song and gave them hope that they would one day be free from the bondage of slavery. There was a transportation that took place when those songs were sung, for that moment they were carried away with their tunes from the problems and injustices they faced in their daily lives and could sing aloud to God who they depended on for help. 
   Frederick Douglass, a fugitive slave who would become one of the leading abolitionists  of the United States, remarked that the spirituals, ``told a tale of woe which was then altogether beyond my feeble comprehension; they were tones loud, long, and deep; they breathed the prayer and complaint of souls boiling over with the bitterest anguish. Every tone was a testimony against slavery and a prayer to God for deliverance from chains. .....'' 
   Unfortunately their plight for freedom from slavery would not end until 1865 when the United States ratified the 13th amendment to the constitution, but our fight for equality against injustices, though easier today, still tarries on. The singing of these African American spirituals is just as much a part of America as our flag and should be celebrated and seen as a thread in the fabric of our rich and diverse nation. 
   Many slaves were not allowed to learn to read and write but they were allowed to have their faith and their song. It was these two things that became a foundation in the African American community and intertwined, was used as a method of survival, as a means to cope with human servitude and echoed their strong desire to be free. It was in these songs that an oral history of their plight was communicated to each other, taught to their children, recorded their sad history and healed their broken hearts. 
   The Old Negro spiritual is still alive today. The influence of these songs is felt in gospel and the many popular genres of music that evolved from gospel. African American spirituals spread all over the United States, and the songs we know of today may only represent a small portion of the total number of the spirituals that once existed. 
   I thank my colleague, Ms. DELAURO, for introducing this important legislation, to ensure that we celebrate, treasure and recognize the African American spiritual as a national treasure and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RESPONSE NEEDED REGARDING SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN MILITARY -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise to associate myself with the remarks that my colleagues have made on the existence of an economic crisis and to ask this administration to wake up. I hope that we will do something to deal with the catastrophic subprime mortgage collapse, and that is to call for a moratorium on all foreclosures across America, those individuals who are behind in their payments and those who are in fact keeping up with their payments. Some response has to come. 
   But I do want to step aside from the economic engine and the need for that to cite a situation that I think is drastic and, of course, a disaster, and that is the tragedy of the young marine, the young woman, who has now lost her  life in North Carolina, and to ask the United States military what happens when a woman alleges sexual harassment, or, in this instance, rape. I think it is imperative that we have a system and a response that was not given to this young woman. 
   Some years ago, the Women's Caucus, Republicans and Democrats, raised the question of sexual harassment that was permeating our United States military. They are too good for this and this must stop. I am saddened by her loss. I believe it could have been avoided. We need a response, and we need it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING ASSASSINATION OF FORMER PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER BENAZIR BHUTTO AND REAFFIRMING COMMITMENT OF UNITED STATES TO ASSIST PEOPLE OF PAKISTAN -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me offer my gratitude to Chairman Ackerman and to his cosponsor, Mr. Pence, and our chairman of the full committee, Mr. Lantos, for all of his leadership and certainly his recognition as a peacemaker as well, and to the ranking member, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. 
   I rise today with a great degree of somberness and, to a certain extent, hopelessness. But I also rise to express my appreciation for the life and the legacy of Benazir Bhutto. I also want to offer a personal sympathy and acknowledgment to her husband, Mr. Zardari; her son, Bilawal; and her daughters, Bakhtwar and Aseefa, for our families mourn with you. 
   And I think it is important in the backdrop of one of the greatest peacemakers' birthday, Dr. Martin Luther King, to place former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in her rightful place. I am glad my colleagues called her a peacemaker. I call her a humanitarian and someone who was willing to sacrifice her own life to push the envelope of democracy. 
   I hold in my hand the Washington Post today that has as a headline, ``Bhutto's last day in keeping with her driven life.'' It indicates a quote that I think speaks to her life. It says, ``Wake up, my brothers.'' That is why she was campaigning in such a frenzied manner. That is why she was waving to her constituents and fellow brothers and sisters as she left the place of her speech. 
   So I think it is important for us to make the very important note that we should not victimize the victim. Her assassination was not her fault. Everyone in a pressing democracy wants the ability to communicate with those who you are trying to encourage to wake up. Today we honor that bravery, that courage. 
   We say to the Pakistani Government, for this Nation to move forward, there must be an enlisted and entrenched commitment to democracy. There must be a full investigation of this assassination. It must be determined whether al Qaeda had others beyond its reach to be involved in what may have been a conspiracy. And yes, the leadership of the Pakistan Government must ensure the security of all candidates going forward for these elections. The elections must be ensured. 
   But we must thank former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto for her legacy; that she was not concerned about her own safety, that she wanted greatness and excellence for her country. 
   I joined with President Clinton in a visit some years ago when we met President Musharraf, and there were great hopes that he would move his country towards democracy. There were times that occurred. Now he must show that he is sincere about this democracy and let the elections go forward and let a democratic leader emerge from this election. At the same time, he must of course make sure that the instruments of democracy, the court system, the media, and all of those different voices be heard, but it must be ensured that the government is in the business of security and making that happen. 
   In speaking to Prime Minister Bhutto in the days and weeks before her death, as I did, it was obvious that she was concerned about her security, but she was concerned about the future of the people of Pakistan. Again, a peacemaker, someone who put her life behind her love and affection for this country. 
   And so we rise today to acknowledge the horrific tragedy, the fact that her family has suffered such, and the fact that she was truly a fighter globally. But there is a challenge that she knew that we had to confront together, and that is the tribal areas in Pakistan. It is a place where we must accept the collapse, if you will, of the foreign policy efforts of this nation, for it is there where the Taliban is resurging and there where al Qaeda may be strong, and it is there where it is alleged that Osama bin Laden rests. 
   So this policy must begin to address what former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto wanted us to address: the social and economic needs, along with the security needs, of the Pakistani people. And it is my call that we not give up on the Pakistani people or Pakistan. It is a country that was founded on democratic principles. We must not give up on the Pakistani people around the world and Pakistani Americans. They want democracy. Those in my community want democracy for their nation, and my constituents in Houston, Texas, are calling me every day so we can come together to find a way to put Pakistan on the path to democracy. 
   Sleep well, my good friend, former Prime Minister Bhutto. We owe you an enormous debt of gratitude, and deepest sympathy to your family. But our commitment is that your lust and love for peace will never be forgotten. We owe you that in our tribute and our words and actions and deeds. May all rest in peace, in you, a great and wonderful leader.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 912, introduced by my distinguished colleague Mr. ACKERMAN. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan resolution, which condemns the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and reaffirms the commitment of the United States to assist the people of Pakistan in combating terrorist activity and promoting a free and democratic Pakistan. I express my sincere condolences to Ms. Bhutto's husband, Asif Ali Zardari, and her children, Bilawal, Bakhtwar, and Aseefa. I would like to thank my colleague Mr. ACKERMAN for introducing this resolution, and I would like to commend Mr. LANTOS for his leadership on Pakistan as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 
   As my colleagues are aware, former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was assassinated on December 27, 2007, as she left a peaceful political rally, in an attack which also killed over 20 innocent bystanders. Ms. Bhutto's death came 2 months after she returned to Pakistan from exile and was immediately attacked in a suicide bombing that killed over 130 people, and just over 2 weeks before Pakistan's democratic elections were scheduled to occur. 
   It is with deep sadness that I mourn the passing of former Pakistani Prime Minister Bhutto. Ms. Bhutto was a woman and a leader who pursued excellence and greatness for her country, putting the needs of her nation above concerns for her own safety. As co-chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, I had the opportunity to speak with Ms. Bhutto several times in recent months, and I was always struck by her commitment to remaining in Pakistan, despite attacks and threats on her life. Benazir Bhutto's return to Pakistan in October 2007 came in the midst of an explosion that would have driven away anyone of lesser heart. She left the relative security of family life in Dubai to return to her homeland, determined to see democratic processes and institutions grow in Pakistan. 
   Benazir Bhutto was one of the world's most high-profile female leaders, and she rose to prominence amidst a male-dominated political hierarchy. After gaining her education at Harvard and Oxford, Ms. Bhutto followed her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, into politics. Like her  father, she served as Prime Minister of Pakistan, holding the office from 1988 to 1990 and again from 1993 to 1996. Also like her father, she was violently killed for her convictions, her dedication to her country, and her unwillingness to hide in the shadows upon her return to Pakistan. 
   The assassination of Ms. Bhutto is a horrific tragedy for Pakistan and for the world. It is essential that her killers be brought to justice immediately. This is an extremely critical time for the nation of Pakistan, with elections that had been expected in early January now scheduled for February 18, 2008. Pakistan has seen serious political instability throughout the past year, weathering approximately 60 suicide bomb attacks, which killed nearly 800 people over the course of the year. 
   Pakistan continues to be an important ally in the global fight against terrorism. I am particularly worried about the security of Pakistan's leaders and people, and I believe that we must examine the measures that are being undertaken to ensure their safety. As co-chair of the Congressional Pakistan Caucus, I have long advocated the need to ensure that Pakistan is stabilized, and that its leaders and people are protected. 
   According to the United States Department of State, Pakistan currently has 85,000 troops stationed along the border with Afghanistan. Richard A. Boucher, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, recently noted that Pakistan has ``captured more al-Qaeda than any country in the world, and lost more people doing that.'' Pakistani authorities have also killed or captured several top Taliban commanders in this area in recent months. 
   Prime Minister Bhutto's assassination is a great blow to the democratic process in Pakistan. The international community must work together with the Pakistani government to ensure that those responsible for this brutal crime are brought to justice. In addition, we must stand with the people of Pakistan during this turbulent time, and, together, work together against our common enemy: terrorism. 
   Benazir Bhutto was a truly courageous woman, and a true leader for her nation and the world. Her violent and untimely death is a true tragedy, and I join with the people of Pakistan, as well as my colleagues here in Congress, in mourning the passing of an extraordinary leader, as well as those who died in the December 17th attack with her. 
   I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution, paying tribute to former Prime Minister Bhutto, condemning her assassination, supporting Pakistani and international efforts to bring her murderers to justice, and reaffirming our commitment to a free and democratic Pakistan, standing strong against our mutual enemy of terrorism.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1255, the ``Presidential Records Act Amendments of 2007,'' which vitiates an Executive order issued in 2001 by President Bush that unreasonably and severely restricts public access to Presidential records. By negating that Executive order, we win a great victory for open government. 
   Under the Presidential Records Act, Presidential records are supposed to be released to historians and the public 12 years after the end of a Presidential administration. Shortly after taking office in 2001, President Bush issued Executive Order 13233, which overturned President Reagan's Executive order and gave current and former Presidents and Vice Presidents broad authority to withhold Presidential records or delay their release indefinitely. H.R. 1255 will nullify the Bush Executive order and establish procedures to ensure the timely release of Presidential records. 
   Under the Bush Executive order, the Archivist of the United States must wait for both the current and former President to approve the release of Presidential records, a review process that can continue indefinitely. Under the bill, the current and former President would have a set time period of no longer than 40 business days to raise objections to the release of these records by the Archivist. 
   Mr. Speaker, another salutary feature of H.R. 1255 is that it limits the authority of former Presidents to withhold Presidential records. To prevent the release of his records under the regime established by President Reagan's Executive order, a former President was required to request the incumbent President to assert the claim of executive privilege. If the incumbent President decided not to assert executive privilege, however, the records would be released unless the former President succeeded in obtaining a court order upholding the assertion of privilege and enjoining disclosure. 
   The regime established by President Bush's Executive order turned this process on its head. It requires the incumbent President to sustain the executive privilege claim of the former President unless a person seeking access could persuade a court to reject the claim. In effect, the Bush order gave former Presidents virtually unlimited authority to withhold Presidential records through assertions of executive privilege. H.R. 1255 restores the Reagan approach, giving the incumbent President the discretion to reject ill-founded assertions of executive privilege by former Presidents. 
   Mr. Speaker, under President Bush's Executive order regime, claims of executive privilege could be asserted to defeat disclosure even after the death of a former President by his heirs, assigns, and descendants. The practical effect of eliminating the requirement that the former President had to assert the privilege personally is to extend the time in which Presidential records may be withheld in perpetuity. H.R. 1255 makes clear that the right to claim executive privilege is personal to current and former Presidents and does not survive the death of the former President. 
   Mr. Speaker, perhaps the most egregious aspect of President Bush's Executive order is that it authorized former Vice Presidents to assert executive privilege claims over Vice Presidential records. If the authority to assert such a claim is left undisturbed, the public will never learn what really went on behind the closed doors of Vice President CHENEY's secret energy task force or the White House Iraq Group's marketing campaign to sell the Iraq War to the Congress and the American people. That is why I support the provision in H.R. 1255 limiting the right to assert executive privilege over Presidential records only to Presidents and former Presidents. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1255 and urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation amending the Presidential Records Act to nullify the Bush Executive order and establish procedures to ensure the timely public release of Presidential records. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Sp eaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1309, the ``Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 2007.'' This legislation contains a dozen substantive provisions that will increase public access to Government information by strengthening the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). 
   Mr. Speaker, the principles embodied by FOIA are intended to make the Government, in President Lyndon B. Johnson's words, ``as open as the security of the Nation permits.'' But in recent years, Federal agencies have come to look on FOIA requests as something to be prevented and obstructed, rather than welcomed and facilitated. The bill before us will help end that way of doing business. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1309 restores the presumption of disclosure to FOIA by making it clear that records should be released to the public if disclosure is allowable under law and the agency cannot reasonably foresee any harm from such a disclosure. 
   Mr. Speaker, under current law, agencies are required to respond to a request for information filed under the FOIA within 20 days but as we all know, delays and backlogs are all too common. H.R. 1309 makes this deadline meaningful by ensuring that the 20-day statutory clock runs immediately upon an agency's receipt of a request. The bill imposes consequences on Federal agencies for missing the deadline. For example, agencies are prevented from charging processing fees whenever they failed to meet the 20-working day response deadline. 
   The bill also requires agencies to provide requesters individualized tracking numbers for each request and access to a telephone or internet hotline with information about the status of requests. 
   Another important feature of the bill is that it strengthens agency reporting requirements to identify excessive delays and requires each agency to make the raw data used to compile its annual reports publicly available. Also, the bill requires the Government Accountability Office to report annually on the Department of Homeland Security's use of the broad disclosure exemption for ``critical infrastructure information.'' 
   I also commend to Members another feature of H.R. 1309 that should reduce the need to resort to litigation. The bill creates the new position of FOIA Ombudsman to help FOIA requesters resolve problems without having to turn to the courts. The FOIA ombudsman will be located at the National Archives and will help requesters by providing informal guidance and nonbinding opinions regarding rejected or delayed FOIA requests. The FOIA ombudsman will also review agency compliance with FOIA. 
   Last, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1309 makes it more feasible for citizen groups to challenge the improper withholding of Government information by expanding access to attorneys' fees for FOIA requesters who successfully challenge  an agency's denial of information. The bill also holds agencies accountable for their decisions by enhancing the authority of the Office of Special Counsel to take disciplinary action against Government officials who arbitrarily and capriciously deny disclosure. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1309 and urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation that will restore public confidence in the administration of the executive branch of the Federal Government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY DONATION REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the public's right to know. I rise in support of H.R. 1254, the ``Presidential Library Donations Reform Act of 2007,'' which requires the disclosure of donors to presidential libraries. 
   Mr. Speaker, Presidential libraries are built using private funds raised by an organization or foundation working on behalf of the President. It costs a lot of money to construct and endow a Presidential library. The first Presidential library, housing the papers of Franklin D. Roosevelt, cost less than $400,000 to build, about $5 million adjusted for inflation. But since that time, Presidential libraries have grown more and more ambitious and costly. The $26 million Carter library was succeeded by the $57 million Reagan library, followed in turn by the $83 million library complex for former President George H.W. Bush, and the $165 million Clinton library complex. George W. Bush's Presidential library complex may cost as much as $500 million. 
   To erect these major complexes is going to take more than the $25 to $50 donations that built Harry Truman's modest Presidential library. Donations from individual donors can and have amounted to several million dollars. Under current law, Presidents may raise unlimited funds for their libraries while in office, which raises concerns about conflicts of interest, corruption or the appearance of corruption. This is because donations for the Presidential library can be unlimited in size but are not required to be disclosed. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1254 greatly enhances the public's access to information because it requires that contribution information be 
   made available in a timely manner on the Internet in a searchable, sortable, downloadable database, without any fee or access charges. This proposal would ensure, for the first time, the public knows the source of contributions to the Presidential libraries intended to serve them. 
   Typically, fundraising to construct a Presidential library is done through a nonprofit foundation or group, which is free to seek donations from corporations, individuals, even foreign nationals and foreign governments. Sitting presidents may be actively involved in soliciting these contributions. And there is no limit on the size of the donations, and no requirement that they be disclosed. 
   Mr. Speaker, a Presidential library complex has become one of the vehicles for Presidents to shape and perpetuate their legacy. They also provide a platform for Presidents to continue work on issues they care about. But if sitting Presidents are raising money in undisclosed, unlimited amounts for projects in which they are personally invested, wealthy special interests have unprecedented opportunities to seek access and influence at the White House and evade all public scrutiny. At the very least, the public deserves to know the amount of donations, the names, addresses and occupations of the donors, and the dates donations were made. 
   H.R. 1254 requires that all organizations established for the purpose of raising funds for Presidential libraries or their related facilities report on a quarterly basis all contributions of $200 or more. 
   Under H.R. 1254, organizations fundraising for Presidential libraries would be required to disclose their donations while the President is in office and during the period before the Federal government has taken possession of the library. The bill sets a minimum reporting period of 4 years after the end of a President's term. 
   The bill injects sunshine in government by making public information about donations to presidential libraries made during the term of the president in question. Under the bill, presidential library fundraising organizations would be required to disclose to Congress and the Archivist the amount and date of each contribution, the name of the contributor, and if the contributor is an individual, the occupation of the contributor. As noted previously, the National Archives would be required to make the information available to the public through a free, searchable, and downloadable database on the Internet. 
   For all of these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1254. As Justice Brandeis famously observed, ``sunshine is the best disinfectant.'' I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this important and necessary legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished gentleman for his leadership, and I thank all of the cosponsors that have brought this legislation, H.R. 985, to the floor, Representatives HENRY WAXMAN, TODD PLATTS, CHRIS VAN HOLLEN, and THOMAS DAVIS, and certainly a number of the total of 29 cosponsors, and the fact that this committee voted the whistleblower protection out unanimously. 
   We who are members of the Homeland Security Committee, along with Chairman Thompson, and I know we have been working on this with the ranking member as well, stand in support of this legislation. I know that we will be yielded time shortly, but I am delighted to be able to share my thoughts on the importance of H.R. 985, which would extend whistleblower protection to Federal workers who specialize in national security issues. It would also ensure that employees who work for companies with government contracts are protected when they report waste, fraud, and abuse of U.S. taxpayer dollars. 
   Protecting scientific whistleblowers, this legislation would extend whistleblower protection to Federal employees who disclose actions related to the validity of federally funded scientific research and analysts. Many of us recognize and remember the Los Alamos incident of a couple years ago still was never, if you will, explored and never settled. 
   This also would override several court and administrative decisions that undermine existing whistleblower protection, provide whistleblower access to Federal District Courts if the Merit Systems Protection Board or the Inspector General does not take action on their claims within 180 days. 
   This is good news to the Homeland Security Department and particularly the transportation security officers. Contrary to assertions by the opponents of the bill, TSOs do not have any meaningful whistleblower rights. The truth is, TSOs do not enjoy full whistleblower protection; specifically, transportation security officers enjoy little more than minimal whistleblower protections deriving from a memorandum of understanding entered into when the TSA was still part of the Department of Transportation. Under the MOU, screeners can only bring a claim to the office of a special counsel; they do not have the right of appeal or to seek independent review by another agency or court. 
   It is important to note that in 2004 the Merit Systems Protection Board  ruled in a case, Schott v. Department of Homeland Security, that the Homeland Security Act does not provide TSA screeners the right to bring a claim before the MSPB, even though such rights were enjoyed by all other department employees. 
   This is crucial. I have been working on this issue for quite a while. The No Fear Act, which indicated or had to do with discrimination against workers at the Environmental Protection Agency, generated, even though it is a bill on discrimination of Federal employees that generated from whistleblower employees at the Environmental Protection Agency that didn't have the necessary protection to talk about issues that dealt with regular issues of research, but also on the issue of security. Let me quickly say that the EPA had a similar problem where it also faced no protection of those employees, and the No Fear Act came out of that which had to do with racial discrimination against Federal employees. 
   But NASA, for example, legislation that I wrote dealing with the International Space Station to give protection to NASA employees to save lives and also to protect them in case of issues that they were dealing with relating to national security. 
   All employees should feel free to tell the truth. All employees should be protected, particularly Federal employees, particularly in this time in the backdrop of 9/11. Tell the truth, be protected, and the whistleblower protection will allow us to run this country in the right way, save lives, and have employees that are Federal Government employees gives us the fact so we can do the right thing. Support H.R. 985.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 985, the ``Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007,'' which extends whistleblower protections to federal employees and contractors working in the area of national security and intelligence, including screeners at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). 
   Mr. Chairman, there is a tremendous need to protect our best sources for identifying waste fraud and abuse--federal workers and contractors. H.R. 985 treats Transportation Security Officers (TSOs), sometimes called ``screeners,'' the same as all other Department employees by giving them full whistleblower protections, which TSOs currently do not have. 
   Mr. Chairman, contrary to assertions by opponents of the bill, TSOs do not have any meaningful whistleblower rights. The truth is TSOs do not enjoy full whistleblower protections. Specifically, TSOs enjoy little more than minimal whistleblower protections deriving from a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) entered into when TSA was still part of the Department of Transportation. 
   Under this MOU, screeners can only bring a claim to the Office of Special Counsel; they do not have a right of appeal or to seek independent review by another agency or court. 
   Mr. Chairman, in 2004, the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) ruled in Schott v. Department of Homeland Security, that the Homeland Security Act does not provide TSA screeners the right to bring a claim before the MSPB, even though such rights were enjoyed by all other Department employees. 
   Thus, as you can see Mr. Chairman, TSOs are treated differently than other Department of Homeland Security personnel--including fellow employees within TSA. 
   This bill allows a whistleblower to seek relief in federal circuit court, if his or her claim has not been acted upon within 6 months. In addition, H.R. 985 permits the whistleblower to bring an appeal on their case to any federal circuit court of appeals having in personam jurisdiction, not just the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit as is the case under current law. 
   I am also pleased that this bill provides the same rights to the Department's Office of Intelligence and Analysis employees as it does to intelligence employees in other agencies. I do not have to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that whistleblowers in the intelligence community must be careful when they disclose certain information. 
   H.R. 985 set forth procedures which enable whistleblowers to assert their claims, while at the same time adequately protecting any sensitive or classified information involved with such claims. 
   Mr. Chairman, I note that H.R. 1, which passed the House in January, seeks to improve the poor morale problem at TSA by giving TSO employees whistleblower and collective bargaining rights. These collective bargaining rights are comparable to other law enforcement officers and others within the Department, such as the Border Patrol, Customs and Border Protection Officers. 
   Mr. Chairman, as a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee and chair of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, I am proud to support H.R. 985. This bill will help the federal government keep make America safer and more secure by encouraging and protecting employees who come forward to report waste, fraud, wrongdoing, or abuse of vital and limited government resources. I urge all members to join me in voting for this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Carney for his leadership and work, along with, as I mentioned earlier, the chairman of the full Committee on Homeland Security, Mr. Thompson, and the ranking member. 
   There is no doubt that whistleblower protection is intimately interwoven with the work and the issues and the mission and obligations of the Homeland Security Department and the Homeland Security Committee, both in the House and the other body. We have too often seen debacles occurring, tragically, and I believe with a clean whistleblower protection, where workers are aware of their rights, we are enhancing the security of America. 
   This bill in particular responds to the transportation security officers, sometimes called screeners. As the chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security with oversight over our transportation security screeners, it is clear that giving them full whistleblower protection is crucial, and it is also clear that they do not have it now. 
   Others will tell you that TSOs have whistleblower protection rights. They do not. While this may be true on paper, it is not true in practice. The truth is that transportation security officers do not enjoy full whistleblower protections. Specifically TSOs have limited whistleblower protections that come under a memorandum of understanding, an MOU, that was entered into when TSA was still part of the Department of Transportation. Under the MOU, TSOs can only bring a claim to the Office of Special Counsel. They do not have a right of appeal or independent review by another agency or court. 
   What that means, Mr. Chairman, is they can be fired. So if a transportation security officer sees a breach at one of the thousands upon thousands of airports around America, they have no protection to protect the traveling public. 
   In 2004, while reviewing a TSO whistleblower claim in the case of Schott v. The Department of Homeland Security, the Merit System Protection Board ruled that the Homeland Security Act does not provide TSOs with the right to MSPB review, which review rights are enjoyed by other department employees. 
   Thus, as you can see, Mr. Chairman, this bill is crucial to the transportation security officers, who are treated more differently than any other Department of Homeland Security personnel, including their fellow employees within TSA. The bill allows a whistleblower to go to court if their claim has not been acted upon within 6 months. 
   There is much that the TSA screener says as he or she watches day after day at whether the procedures that we have in place really work. In fact, I know there are procedures that go on at the screening site where it is crucial that an astute, well-trained TSA employee, screener, can in fact be able to enhance the security of America by telling the truth. 
   I am glad Mr. Carney is chairing our Management Subcommittee, because he is going to be talking about training issues. They are crucial. This bill permits, Mr. Chairman, as I close, the whistleblower to bring an appeal on their case to any Federal Court of Appeals having proper jurisdiction over the case, not just a Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, as the law now stands. That means we have real protection against firing and termination just because a transportation security officer is doing his or her job. 
   I am also pleased this bill provides the same rights to the Department's Office of Intelligence and Analysis employees as it does to intelligence employees in other agencies. As we know, whistleblowers in the Intelligence Committee must be careful when they disclose certain information. This bill helps govern how these people bring their claims, while also adequately protecting any sensitive or classified information that may be involved with such claims. 
   Mr. Chairman, I want to note that H.R. 1, which passed the House in January, tries to fix TSA's poor morale problem by giving TSO whistleblower rights and collective bargaining rights. These collective bargaining rights are comparable to other law enforcement officers and others within the Department, such as Border Patrol and others. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this. This is a new day, a fresh day for homeland security in America, giving these officers the right to tell the truth and do their job and protect America.  
    Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 985, the ``Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2007,'' which extends whistleblower protections to federal employees and contractors working in the area of national security and intelligence, including screeners at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). 
    Mr. Chairman, I have long been a strong proponent of whistleblower protection. As a Member of Congress from Houston, home of NASA's Johnson Space Center, I have long been involved in developing procedures and protections to ensure that concerns affecting the public health and safety are made known and addressed in an atmosphere free of intimidation, threats, harassment, and reprisal. 
   For example, during a hearing held a few years ago by the Science Committee of which I was a member, Admiral Gehman and representatives of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board explained how fear of retaliation by management led some engineers to withhold their concerns about the safety and well-being of NASA missions and crew. Reports received after the tragic Colombia space shuttle accident indicated the accident may have been avoided had there been in place a process that would foster an environment encouraging employees and contractors to come forward with information that could avert future threats to the safety of astronauts, mission specialists, and other workers. 
   My legislation created a NASA Safety Reporting Board that would rapidly screen such disclosures and either report them directly to the Administrator, or reject them as non-eligible--perhaps with a suggestion to seek redress through internal means, e.g., union and OSHA representatives, and agency ombudsmen. Afterward, the Board would be tasked with keeping a registry of reporting workers and with dispute resolution in the event that the worker alleges retaliation by management. Coupling the reporting and anti-retaliation functions in one board would limit the scope of the board to truly vital issues, and make workers feel confident that their concerns will not be lost or buried in the bureaucracy of standard whistleblower or OSHA claims. The Safety Reporting Board would be comprised of both NASA managers and non-managers, with diverse expertise, representing multiple Centers, and include an advocate for workers. 
   Because we saw the lack of whistle blower protection for NASA employers as a safety threat to the nation's commitment to space exploration and travel, we took action to remove this impediment. The effort has been successful and we are reaping the benefits to this day. 
    Mr. Chairman, we need to extend the benefits of whistleblower protection from NASA to other vital Government agencies and functions. There is a tremendous need to protect our best sources for identifying waste fraud and abuse--Federal workers and contractors. H.R. 985 treats Transportation Security Officers (TSOs), sometimes called ``screeners,'' the same as all other Department employees by giving them full whistleblower protections, which TSOs currently do not have. 
    Mr. Chairman, contrary to assertions by opponents of the bill, TSOs do not have any meaningful whistleblower rights. The truth is TSOs do not enjoy full whistleblower protections. Specifically, TSOs enjoy little more than minimal whistleblower protections deriving from a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) entered into when TSA was still part of the Department of Transportation. 
   Under this MOU, screeners can only bring a claim to the Office of Special Counsel; they do not have a right of appeal or to seek independent review by another agency or court. 
    Mr. Chairman, in 2004, the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) ruled in Schott v. Department of Homeland Security, that the Homeland Security Act does not provide TSA screeners the right to bring a claim before the MSPB, even though such rights were enjoyed by all other Department employees. 
   Thus, as you can see Mr. Chairman, TSOs are treated differently than other Department of Homeland Security personnel--including fellow employees within TSA. 
   This bill allows a whistleblower to seek relief in Federal circuit court, if his or her claim has not been acted upon within 6 months. In addition, H.R. 985 permits the whistleblower to bring an appeal on their case to any Federal circuit court of appeals having in personam jurisdiction, not just the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit as is the case under current law.  
   I am also pleased that this bill provides the same rights to the Department's Office of Intelligence and Analysis employees as it does to intelligence employees in other agencies. I do not have to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that whistleblowers in the intelligence community must be careful when they disclose certain information. 
   H.R. 985 set forth procedures which enable whistleblowers to assert their claims, while at the same time adequately protecting any sensitive or classified information involved with such claims. 
    Mr. Chairman, I note that H.R. 1, which passed the House in January, seeks to improve the poor morale problem at TSA by giving TSO employees whistleblower and collective bargaining rights. These collective bargaining rights are comparable to other law enforcement officers and others within the Department, such as the Border Patrol, Customs and Border Protection Officers. 
    Mr. Chairman, as a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee and chair of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, I am proud to support H.R. 985. This bill will help the Federal Government keep America safer and more secure by encouraging and protecting employees who come forward to report waste, fraud, wrongdoing, or abuse of vital and limited Government resources. I urge all members to join me in voting for this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, allow me to thank my good friend the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House for his energy and the focused way in which this committee is pursuing its business of engaging and improving the relations of the United States with those around the world. Let me thank the ranking member as well, whom I have worked with on many issues dealing with women and children, and I appreciate their collective leadership. 
   This bill is an important restatement of what many of us have argued for and continue to make the point that the building pieces that we can offer to Afghanistan will build a building of peace for decades and centuries to come. Frankly, many of us believe that the war on terror is seeded in Afghanistan and would like us to find or to be able to invest not only as it relates militarily to the concerns of the borders between Afghanistan and Pakistan and the rise of the Taliban but to seed out, if you will, the bad seeds of terrorism, to make Afghanistan the shining star, people desiring and hungering for the water of democracy. 
   So this legislation, the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act of 2007, needs to be reauthorized and has in it a valuable statement about the United States' commitment, longevity in its commitment, to helping Afghanistan put forward the building blocks of peace. The fact that it authorizes $1.7 billion in each of the fiscal years 2008 to 2010 emphasizes economic and development assistance and as well capacity building programs and, as has been mentioned, women and girls programs. 
   Let me cite, Mr. Chairman, an individual who has really been a sole champion on the issue of educating Afghan children. And, of course, I am very grateful for your accepting my amendment regarding the refugee resettlement in the manager's amendment and look forward to discussing my amendment regarding the emphasis on training girls to encourage them to finish secondary school, and as well, my amendment regarding the safety of women legislators. But I do want to pay tribute to Josanna Smith. She is a name that you may not have heard, but she has devised a little chalkboard that is able to travel in places where many of us couldn't in the high hills of Afghanistan to give to the children that  many of us see in pictures or have actually visited them, as I have done, and giving books to these children, sitting in little circles trying to learn. 
   This little simple, if you will, chalkboard that ties to it a piece of chalk allows children to learn. Josanna has put together a foundation where it is almost self-funded. She has been to Afghanistan and many places around the world. 
   I cite Josanna Smith as an example of the kind of good heartedness of Americans who really desire the best for Afghanistan and see it as the place where we can, in essence, make the fruits of democracy thrive. 
   This legislation acknowledges that the war on terror started first in the bowels of this country. It acknowledges the need to address the controversy and conflict on the Afghan and Pakistan border. It recognizes the rise of the Taliban. And, hopefully, it will characterize the foreign policy of this Nation, that is, that we must solve the terror in Afghanistan before we begin to completely finish the war on terror or at least make the forward step that we need to make. 
   I look forward to discussing the amendments that will hopefully further help women and women legislators take their rightful place in a free and open democracy that is safe and secure, and that is the country of Afghanistan.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 2446, ``the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act of 2007.'' This is an extremely important and timely piece of legislation, and I commend the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. LANTOS, for introducing it. In the nearly 5 years since the 9/11 attacks, and the subsequent ouster of the Taliban and al-Qaeda from Afghanistan, we have made significant efforts to secure that nation from the Taliban. 
   However, the Taliban continues to pose a very real threat to Afghanistan's stability. After enduring decades of violence and hardship, the people of Afghanistan continue to live in a climate of ongoing turmoil, particularly in the southern regions of the country, where there are ongoing and dangerous clashes between coalition-led forces and insurgents. Despite our positive efforts, the Taliban has been able to reorganize, and continues destabilize the country. 
   These unfortunate realities remind us of the need to continue U.S. programs in Afghanistan, as well as the necessity of continually studying and revising our involvement to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being put to the best possible use. If the United States is to ensure that Afghanistan is secure and stable in the long run, we must address the underlying causes of persistent violence, including the still-flourishing opium trade and the nation's lack of infrastructure. 
   Education, so long neglected under the Taliban regime, will be a vital component of Afghanistan's development. I commend the many individuals and groups who have been tirelessly furthering the cause of Afghanistan; individuals like Josanna Smith and her organization Worldwide Wisdom United, Inc. Ms. Smith's organization has distributed thousands of Learning Boards TM, which are sturdy, hand-held chalkboards containing eraser and a supply of chalk. This simple but ingenious device can mean the world of difference to a child in Afghanistan, opening up a future of economic success and self-sustainability. I commend Ms. Smith, and other Americans like her, for bravely recognizing and addressing this ongoing problem.  
   I am proud to have offered two important amendments to this legislation, both of which I believe will strengthen this bill and help it to achieve its intended purpose. My first amendment states that technical assistance should be provided to train national, provincial, and local governmental personnel for capacity-building purposes as it relates to education, health care, human rights (particularly women's rights), and political participation. This amendment also seeks to ensure girls complete secondary education so they are prepared and have the ability to pursue post-secondary education. 
   My second amendment seeks to bolster women's political participation by protecting women legislators when they return to the provinces they represent. It states that it is the sense of Congress that assistance provided to foreign countries and international organizations under this provision should be used, in part, to protect these female legislators. 
   This bill has many other important provisions. Key among these are programs to combat narcotics trafficking and rampant corruption. Additionally, this bill encourages greater regional cooperation. I believe this to be a vital aspect to any effort toward peace in Afghanistan, and I strongly encourage regional dialogue and the involvement of Afghanistan's neighbors. 
   Mr. Chairman, we have a responsibility to Afghanistan. We have pledged a commitment to Afghanistan's long-term stability. I believe that this bill is essential and urgent, and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in support of it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume, and I thank the chairman and the ranking member for their leadership on this issue. 
   Earlier in the debate I mentioned the concept of building blocks of democracy. Frankly, I believe this amendment speaks to the building of capacity to ensure that democracy. 
   Having first started my elective political career in local government, I know that many times we say that is where the rubber hits the road. 
   The effort of my amendment is to ensure that those who are involved in local and State government would have the ability to build capacity through technical assistance that will train national, provincial and local government personnel for capacity-building purposes. 
   In order to govern, you must have information, information on education, health care, human rights, and political participation. This legislation globally speaks to those issues in a large manner. 
   I would like to technically emphasize the one-on-one training and influence and information to those who have to govern. The more we can do that, the more we can build capacity. And the more of those who are in the leadership positions can establish confidence so that when they confront the emerging terror of the Taliban or the questioning face of a chieftain, they can have the response that this is, in fact, good government. 
   My amendment also goes to encourage girls in Afghanistan to finish secondary school. We realize this bill has a very strong focus on women and girls, but there has to be the added measure of incentive, not only to the earlier grades, but to say to a young woman that by finishing secondary school, you can go on to post-secondary education, building the blocks of democracy which would include women who would be enabled to be doctors, lawyers, scientists and teachers, building a society in Afghanistan that will need not only men but also women. 
   May I close by simply saying I point to a picture that points to this learning board that I mentioned earlier. These are the kinds of tools that would give young people and those without, if you will, various equipment to go to school the opportunity to do so. I ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to explain my amendment to H.R. 2446, the ``Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act of 2007.'' I believe this is an extremely important piece of legislation, and I commend the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. LANTOS, for introducing it. 
   In the nearly 5 years since the 9/11 attacks, and the subsequent ouster of the Taliban and al-Qaeda from Afghanistan, we have made significant efforts to secure the nation from the Taliban. But we must do more; otherwise, a resurgent Taliban will continue to pose a very real threat to Afghanistan's stability. 
   This bill is an important step toward a more secure Afghanistan, and, ultimately, a more stable region. It authorizes $1.7 billion in each of fiscal years 2008 through 2010 for economic and development assistance and provides additional support for other capacity building programs, such as assistance to women and girls ($45 million per annum), energy development and counter-narcotics ($75 million per annum). Additionally, the bill authorizes funding for counter-narcotics efforts and programs to increase the capacity of Afghan national, provincial, and local governments, and additional development programs. 
   In addition to authorizing assistance to address the continuing humanitarian needs, this legislation targets the ongoing opium trade, as well as persistent problems of corruption. The bill links these various sectors of policy together, integrating security, reconstruction, and development concerns with counter-narcotics and anti-corruption policies. 
   My amendment simply states that technical assistance should be provided to train national, provincial, and local governmental personnel for capacity-building purposes. In particular, this amendment emphasizes the need to build local capacity in the critical fields of  education, healthcare, human rights, and political participation. My amendment will also encourage girls in Afghanistan to finish secondary school, providing them with the ability to pursue post-secondary education. 
   Mr. Chairman, this amendment is born from my strong belief that we must take a long-term view toward reconstruction in Afghanistan, and, in doing so, we must develop the capacity of Afghanistan's citizens. Under the Taliban regime, education, healthcare, human and women's rights, and political participation were seriously stunted by the government's oppressive policies. These sectors are absolutely crucial to the long-term stability and sustainability of Afghanistan. 
   My amendment specifically speaks to the need to combat the lingering societal barriers that may discourage girls from completing secondary education. According to UNICEF's 2005 estimates, 1 million primary school age girls in Afghanistan were not enrolled in school, and education of girls continues to be undervalued in many communities. 
   Girls and women were horribly oppressed under the Taliban, and we must take particular care to ensure that the lack of opportunities afforded to females under the previous leadership is not carried over into the current government. Encouraging girls to complete their education would be extremely beneficial for both the women and girls themselves, and for Afghan society as a whole. 
   Mr. Chairman, we have recognized the shortcomings of Afghanistan's infrastructure. Even as we express our commitment to continuing our programs in Afghanistan, we must look forward to the day we will ultimately leave that country to stand on its own. We must do everything we can to ensure that, sooner rather than later, Afghanistan will no longer need our ongoing assistance. 
   My amendment represents an important step toward that ultimate goal, while at the same time serving our short-term goals and increasing the effectiveness of the humanitarian programs outlined by this legislation. 
   To conclude, let me thank Chairman LANTOS for his leadership on this issue. I am confident that we can work together to craft legislation designed to ensure that Afghanistan can recover from the excesses and abuses of previous regimes, and become an active and prosperous member of the international community. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentlelady for her support, I ask my colleagues to support this amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I want to join Chairman Lantos in applauding this legislation as being bipartisan, and all of us seemingly speaking from the same songbook about the need to build these blocks of democracy, but also to enhance the opportunities for women. 
   Might I just cite as a need for my amendment a report from the BBC that says an international women's rights group says guarantees given to Afghan women after the fall of the Taliban in 2001 have not translated into real change. 
   Another quote from an Afghan woman: ``When I am at home, sometimes I feel as though someone is choking me.'' And 57 percent of girls are married before the legal age of 16. 
   We know that we have made great strides, but there is much more for us to do. Former example, a controversial Afghan politician and former member of parliament, Jalalai Joya, reported in May 2006 that she was forced to sleep in a different house every night as a result of the numerous death threats they have received. She has been quoted as saying ``women still live under the shadow of the gun. Women are still victims of violence.'' Joya was subsequently ousted from parliament after she continuously voiced controversial criticisms of her fellow, mostly male, lawmakers. 
   Raazia Baloch was presented with a broken Kalashnikov firearm upon her election to the provincial assembly, which local authorities told her was for her protection. Ms. Baloch serves a particularly volatile province where, short after her election, an unknown gunman emptied his AK-47 into a van leaving the province's women's ministry. 
   The unfortunate truth is if these women are going to serve, they are going to need our special attention. And I do believe in the relationship that the United States has with Afghanistan. The leadership of President Karzai, speaking to him directly, I know he has a great concern for the viability of women elected officials. In  fact, might I say that in a direct, one-on-one conversation with any number of Afghan women parliamentarians during my visit to Afghanistan, talking to them face to face, eye to eye, sister to sister, if you will, they made it very clear when they do their work in the capital, and they have to go home to their district, just like any one of us, they fear for their lives. They are concerned about being able to fully represent their constituents by going home and coming back safely. 
   Might I just quote additionally, a female owner of a radio station was shot seven times while she slept at home with her 20-month-old son. She is the second female journalist to be murdered in Afghanistan in the past week. 
   So my amendment is very clear, and it is very straight. It allows us through this legislation to make a very pronounced statement, and that statement is that it is the sense of this Congress that assistance provided to foreign countries and international organizations under this provision should be used in part to protect these female legislators. I hope this is part of helping us help them build democracy.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to explain my amendment to H.R. 2446, the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act of 2007. I believe this is an extremely important piece of legislation, and I commend the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Lantos, for introducing it. In the nearly 5 years since the 9/11 attacks, and the subsequent ouster of the Taliban and al-Qaeda from Afghanistan, we have made significant efforts to secure the nation from the Taliban; however, the Taliban continues to pose a very real threat to Afghanistan's stability. 
   This bill is an important step towards a more secure Afghanistan, and ultimately, a more stable region. It authorizes $1.7 billion in each of fiscal years 2008 through 2010 for economic and development assistance and provides additional support for other capacity building programs, such as assistance to women and girls, $45 million per annum, energy development and counter narcotics, $75 million per annum. Additionally, the bill authorizes funding for counter-narcotics efforts and programs to increase the capacity of Afghan national, provincial, and local governments, and additional development programs. 
   In addition to authorizing assistance to address the continuing humanitarian needs, this legislation targets the ongoing opium trade, as well as persistent problems of corruption. The bill links these various sectors of policy together, integrating security, reconstruction, and development concerns with counter-narcotics and anti-corruption policies. 
   My amendment addresses the very serious issue of persecution of women legislators in Afghanistan. All women, but particularly those who demonstrate the courage to become national leaders, continue to face intimidation and violence. If we are to encourage political and civic participation among women, which I strongly advocate, we must ensure that those who bravely venture into the political arena are protected when they return home to the districts they represent. 
   After many years of oppressive Taliban control, women in Afghanistan are now beginning to emerge from the shadows. For the first time in recent memory, they now have the opportunity to take an active role in their country's political destiny. As a female legislator myself, I believe that women should be strongly encouraged to become national leaders; I believe their involvement is extremely beneficial to the nation. 
   And yet, these women face specific dangers as a result of their gender. They may be exposed to vile threats and even physical violence. For example, controversial Afghan politician and former Member of Parliament Malalai Joya reported in May 2006 that she was forced to sleep in a different house every night as a result of the numerous death threats she received. She has been quoted as saying ``women still live under the shadow of the gun. *.*.* women are still victims of violence.'' Joya was subsequently ousted from parliament after she continuously voiced controversial criticisms of her fellow, mostly male, law-makers. 
   In 2006, another legislator, Raazia Baloch, was presented with a broken Kalashnikov firearm upon her election to the provincial assembly, which local authorities told her was for her protection. Ms. Baloch serves a particularly volatile province, where, shortly after her election, an unknown gunman emptied his AK-47 into a van leaving the province's women's ministry. 
   The unfortunate truth is that women's rights are not yet enshrined in Afghanistan. Women who venture into other leadership roles are threatened as well. Only this morning, Zakia Zaki, the female owner of an Afghan radio station, was shot seven times while she slept at home with her 20 month-old son. She is the second female journalist to be murdered in Afghanistan in the past week. 
   This further illustrates the unfortunate truth: Women continue to face persecution and abuses, despite the fall of the Taliban. Until we have reached a point where the basic rights of women are protected by Afghanistan's government and cultural and social institutions, I believe that we need to make every effort to ensure that basic rights are respected. 
   I believe my amendment is absolutely crucial. With residual societal barriers against women and girls persisting even under the new government, I believe we must make every effort to protect women legislators from the persecution and violence they may face in their local communities.   
   No ``Real Change'' for Afghan Women  
   An international women's rights group says guarantees given to Afghan women after the fall of the Taleban in 2001 have not translated into real change. 
   Womankind Worldwide says millions of Afghan women and girls continue to face systematic discrimination and violence in their households and communities. 
   The report admits that there have been some legal, civil and constitutional gains for Afghan women. 
   But serious challenges remain and need to be addressed urgently, it states. 
   These include challenges to women's safety, realisation of civil and political rights and status. 
   Womankind Worldwide sent a film crew to Afghanistan to investigate the situation of women there. 
   They found a young Afghan woman crying in hospital who said she wanted to die. She was recovering after setting fire to herself. 
   Womankind Worldwide says there has been a dramatic rise in cases of self-immolation by Afghan women since 2003. 
   It believes many are the result of forced marriages, thought to account for about 60% to 80% of all Afghan marriages. 
   57% of girls are married before the legal marriage age of 16. 
   Domestic violence remains widespread. 
   At an Afghan women's shelter, a young woman told the film crew that she came to the shelter to target life's troubles. 
   ``I come here so I can ease the pain a little. When I am at home sometimes I feel as though someone is choking me,'' she told the film crew. 
   Womankind Worldwide says the Afghan authorities rarely investigate women's complaints of violent attacks. 
   Women reporting rape run the risk of being imprisoned for having sexual intercourse outside marriage. 
   Although women now hold more than 25% of the seats in the Afghan parliament, female politicians and activists often face intimidation or even violence. 
   ``Women who are standing up to defend women's rights are not being protected,'' says Brita Fernandes Schmidt of Womankind Worldwide. 
   ``My message, really, to the international community is: you need to address specific security issues for women,'' she says. 
   ``Women's rights activists are getting killed, women's NGO workers are getting killed, and that is not going to change unless some drastic action is taken,'' Ms Fernandes continues. 
   Womankind Worldwide says the international community needs to fulfil promises made after the fall of the Taleban to help protect Afghan women. 
   It says the international community should give women a greater voice in setting the aid and reconstruction agenda. 
   Until basic rights are granted to Afghan women in practice as well as on paper, the report says, it could not be said that the status of Afghan women had changed significantly in the past five years.  
   I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos).     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I thank the ranking member for her support and eloquent words on this issue and as well the chairman of the committee for his support. 
   Let me conclude by simply reading the headline of an article: Female Afghan and Pakistani Politicians Forced from Office. This is as late as Wednesday, May 23, 2007. 
   Let me thank my colleagues. I believe my amendment will further enhance our goals, and that is to provide opportunities for all of those in public life, including women in Afghanistan seeking to build the building blocks of democracy, and I ask my colleagues to support my amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 5715, ``Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008'', introduced by Representative GEORGE MILLER of California. I want to thank the Committee on Education and Labor for its efforts in this important area. 
   Every generation sets out to improve upon the previous generation. We teach how children that if they focus, are responsible, and work hard they can be anything. Yet we have provided a false truth for the 
   majority of our children. Rising tuitions in higher education even at our community colleges are keeping a lot of our youth from attending college. For those that are able to attend, they are burdened by extensive loans just to buy books, attend class, and maintain housing. 
   Families are sending their children to school, trying to qualify for parent loans and wondering how they are going to make the payments when they are struggling to pay their mortgage and facing their own issues with possible unemployment. 
   In my home State of Texas, families are struggling to assist children with their education while they face an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent across the State. As of the end of last year, Texas was ranked as having the 20th highest unemployment rate (out of the 50 States). And we are not alone as States grapple with unemployment and a falling housing market. 
   H.R. 5715, Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act, provides much needed support to our families in a time when they most need it by specifically addressing the needs of parents, students, and even lenders. The Student loans Act would: 
   Increase unsubsidized loan limits for students: This bill will increase unsubsidized loan limits by $2,000 for each year of undergraduate and graduate school. It also increases the aggregate loan limits to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and $57,500 for independent undergraduate students. 
   Delayed repayment of parent PLUS loans: Currently PLUS loan borrowers--parents--go into repayment 60 days after disbursement of the loan. This bill would give families an option  of not entering repayment for up to 6 months after a student leaves school. 
   PLUS loan eligibility for struggling home-owners: Under current law, parents with an adverse credit history are ineligible to receive a parent PLUS loan, except under extenuating circumstances. In light of the current housing market, the bill temporarily qualifies up to 180-day delinquency on home mortgages as an extenuating circumstance, therefore making it more possible for parents struggling with the current housing market to secure loans for their children. 
   Lender of Last Resort flexibility: The bill makes clear in statute that the Secretary of Education has the mandatory authority to advance Federal funds to Guaranty Agencies in the case that they do not have sufficient capital. Further, the bill allows a Guaranty Agency to designate a school (rather than an individual student) as a ``lender of last resort school,'' in accordance with guidelines set by the Secretary. 
   Authority for the Secretary of Education to purchase FFEL loan assets: The bill gives the Secretary the temporary authority, upon a determination that there is inadequate availability to meet demand for loans, to purchase loans from FFEL lenders. Such purchases could only be made in the case they are revenue-neutral or beneficial to the Federal Government. 
   Federal Institutions' participation: The bill includes a Sense of the Congress that the Federal Financial Institutions and entities (including the Federal Financing Bank, the Federal Home Loan Banks, and the Federal Reserve) should consider using, in consultation with the Secretaries of Education and the Treasury, available authorities, if needed, to assist in ensuring continued student loan access. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for H.R. 5715, Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act. Let's support education by allowing for greater flexibility, eligibility, and participation for students and their families. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILDREN ARE A PRECIOUS RESOURCE -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, as the co-chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I have worked on issues dealing with child  abuse and mentoring, questions of health care for children. 
   Today in Texas, a court will undertake one of the most challenging legal cases of child custody ever to have been witnessed in the United States. As a strong opponent of child abuse and misuse of our children and affirmation of how precious they are, I ask the Court to make the right and determined decisions based on individual cases. We should not judge the parental rights based upon our opposition to the views of the Fundamental Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. 
   Just as I supported the return of Elian Gonzalez to his parents, I now support the concept that these parents and children should not be divided and separated because of our opposition to some of the legal practices of their parents. 
   We must respect the first amendment, but also the precious right of children and parents being together. There must not be a biased determination. 
   The children are still our precious resource, and if no harm has been done by their parents then the courts must act in the best interests of the children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE OF LOU COSTANTINO -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you, Madam Speaker, and I thank you for your leadership. 
   As I begin my special order this afternoon, I want to pay tribute to two great Americans. One is a friend to us all. We know him well as Lou Costantino. We thank him so very much, and we really know him as Lou. We thank him for his friendship. We thank him for his warmth. We thank him for taking care of this place, this House. 
   Lou, you see, was one of the distinguished men and women who stand outside of the house chamber, works with the Sergeant of Arms, is in conjunction with the Clerk's Office. But really, Lou is part of our family. 
   He attended and was concerned about all of our guests that would come. He was concerned about the Members. He was equally concerned and passionate about America. 
   I consider him a great patriot, a great American. He loved this work because he was serving America. 
   Lou lost his battle just this past weekend, but we are reminded that Lou was with us last week. How truly valiant Lou is in life and in death, and I stand here today to offer my deepest sympathy to his wife, Doris; his daughter, Edie; his son, Lewis, Jr.; and to all of his family members. May he rest in peace and may God bless him. 
   I also take note to acknowledge the happy celebration of the birthday of Maya Angelou, poet laureate, teacher, mentor, resident of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, the author of the 1993 inaugural poem that suggested that those of us who live in the great land must come from underneath the rocks and shout out and be seen for justice. She also wrote the language or the words to a book, ``I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings,'' to talk about what it's like to be isolated, to be contained, to be inhibited as a child growing up in the deep south. 
   Maya Angelou can be considered a great American, certainly a great poet, certainly a great mentor of men and women, college students, as she taught me at Yale University. I am honored today to be able to say ``thank you'' to Maya Angelou. 
   I now move, Madam Speaker, to something that has been continuing in this Nation, and very quickly I call upon the Secretary of State and the United States of America to reengage more actively in the negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians. I now believe fully that the only way that we will have success in recognizing and achieving peace in the Middle East is not through preemptive attacks, but through concern, negotiation, and firmness. 
   We must tell the negotiators what America wants to see and provide them the support. We must insist that we will continue to be a friend of Israel, we will never step away from her, and we stand by Israel's right to exist as a freedom-loving democratic people. 
   Let's say to the Palestinians if they are to move their people beyond the refugee camps, then they, too, must fight for democracy and two distinct separate states. The two-state theory must be put in action, but we can no longer stand by as an objective bystander. We must be engaged, we must roll up our sleeves, we must recognize that we are very much a part of the peace process in the Middle East. 
   I remember very well when the President came in and he said, That's their business. My good friends on the other side of the aisle got up and joined him, That's their business. It's our business. 
   And before the lights go out on this administration, it would do well for us in the name of Prime Minister Sharon, who began this process, to get engaged and to make sure that we can have peace in the Middle East, to have an ally in Israel, safe and secure, and to say to the Palestinian people that you can have good health, you can have housing, you can have education. 
   I think, Madam Speaker, that this is a challenge that the Secretary of State should accept; this is a challenge for the President to accept. America can do no less. 
   I did not say ``battle.'' I said ``engage,'' and be able to be part of the negotiation for peace. There is nothing wrong for being considered a peace-loving Nation that promotes peace. 
   May God bless this Nation and bless our soldiers, wherever they may be, as they stand on the front lines around the world asking us to promote our ideals and our values, and that is peacemakers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL SILVER ALERT ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I support the National Silver Alert Act. I also urge my colleagues to support this bill. It is necessary. 
   Thousands of vulnerable older adults go missing each year as a result of dementia, diminished capacity, foul play or other unusual circumstances. The Alzheimer's Foundation of America estimates that over five million Americans suffer from Alzheimer's disease, and that sixty percent of these are likely to wander from their homes. Alzheimer's disease and other dementia related illnesses often leave their victims disoriented and confused and unable to find their way home. According to the Alzheimer's Association, up to 50 percent of wanderers risk serious illness, injury or death if not found within 24 hours. The problem can be exacerbated greatly by national disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, that can, in a matter of hours, increase the number of missing persons by the thousands. 
   At least eight states, along with non-profit organizations such as the National Center for Missing Adults, Project Lifesaver International and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America, have developed programs to address various aspects of the problem of missing adults, but the need for a coordinated national approach, similar to the Amber Alert Program for children, still exists. In addition, financial support is needed for existing and new local and state programs. 
   The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, administered by the Department of Justice, is the only federal program that currently provides grant funding to locate vulnerable elderly individuals who go missing. Authorization for this program ceased in 1998, but Congress has continued to appropriate some monies for it through fiscal year 2008, when it appropriated $940,000. Another federal law, Kristen's Act, had authorized annual grants in the amount of $1 million for fiscal years 2001 through 2004 to assist law enforcement agencies in locating missing adults and for other purposes. Between fiscal years 2002 through 2006, Kristen's Act grants were made through the Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants Program, primarily to the National Center for Missing Adults, a non-profit organization. In 2006, Congress appropriated $150,000 for this purpose. 
   A. H.R. 6064, THE ``NATIONAL SILVER ALERT ACT'' 
   Importantly, today I urge my colleagues to support another important piece of legislation, H.R. 6064, the National Silver Alert Act. H.R.  6064 sets forth a comprehensive national program. It directs the Attorney General to establish a permanent national Silver Alert communications program within the Department of Justice to provide assistance to regional and local search efforts for missing seniors. The bill requires the Attorney General to assign a Department of Justice officer as a Silver Alert Coordinator. 
   The Silver Alert Coordinator acts as a nationwide point of contact, working with states to encourage the development of local elements of the network, known as Silver Alert plans, and to ensure regional coordination. The bill requires the Coordinator to develop protocols for efforts relating to reporting and finding missing seniors and to establish voluntary guidelines for states to use in developing Silver Alert plans. The bill requires the Coordinator to establish an advisory group (1) to help States, local governments and law enforcement agencies with Silver Alert plans, (2) to provide training and educational programs to states, local governments and law enforcement agencies, and (3) to submit an annual report to congress. The bill also requires the Coordinator to establish voluntary minimum standards for the issuance of alerts through the Silver Alert communications network. 
   H.R. 6064 directs the Attorney General, subject to the availability of appropriations, to provide grants to States for the development and implementation of programs and activities relating to Silver Alert plans. The bill authorizes $5 million for fiscal year 2009 for this purpose. The bill also authorizes an additional $5 million for fiscal year 2009 specifically for the development and implementation of new technologies. The Federal share of the grant may not exceed 50 percent and amounts appropriated under this authorization shall remain available until expended. 
   B. MY PAST AMENDMENTS ON ELDER JUSTICE BILLS 
   In similar elder legislation, namely the Elder Justice Act and the Elder Abuse Victims Act, I co-sponsored amendments with Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California to provide funding to State, Local, and non-profit programs to locate missing elderly. Specifically, my amendment would allow a voluntary electronic monitoring pilot program to assist with the elderly when they are reported missing. In these particular bills, my amendment would allow the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to issue grants to states and local government to carry out pilot programs to provide voluntary electronic monitoring services to elderly individuals to assist in the location of such individuals when they are reported missing. 
   C. ELDER LEGISLATION IS IMPORTANT 
   Elder legislation such as the legislation before us today and the prior elder bills that I mentioned are important. As elder Americans enter their twilight years, we must do more to protect and ensure their safety. Nothing reminds me more of the necessity of this kind of legislation than my very own experiences in Houston, Texas. A few years ago, the family of Sam Kirk, a native of Houston, Texas, called me to help look for him. Mr. Kirk was elderly and suffered from dementia. He had wandered off and could not be located for several days. His family looked for him for many days but could not find him. In an act of desperation, they called on me to lend my services to help them find him. I helped his family look for him and we found him. When we found Mr. Kirk, he was dehydrated and in need of medical attention. We searched for hours and days to find him. It was worth the time and effort we spent to find him alive and well. Legislation that helps America find and take care of its lost and missing elders is extremely important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6889, which will extend the authority of the Secretary of Education to ensure the continued access to Federal student loans for one more year, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative George Miller. This significant piece of legislation provides greater access to colleges and universities, making higher education affordable for all Americans, not just the wealthy. 
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. Earlier this year, we passed H.R. 5715 (now Public Law 110-227), the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield such time as he might care to consume to my good friend from Georgia (Mr. <em>Price</em>). -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my gratitude to all the support groups, families, and friends of our men and women in the armed forces. By supporting those who support them, we honor the sacrifice and courage of our women who have served and are currently serving in our Armed Forces. 
   Since September 2001, more than 1,700,000 members of the Armed Forces have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and nearly 611,000 have been deployed more than once. More than 782,000 members of our Armed Forces deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan are parents. Sadly, nearly 35,000 troops have been separated from their children for 4 or more deployments. 
   Many of our men and women in the armed forces have given the ultimate sacrifice to secure the freedoms of others. As of May 3, 2008 over 4,500 died and over 32,000 wounded while deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan). 
   The members of our Armed Forces and their families deserve all the medical, financial,  education, and moral support that our Nation can provide. Our military support groups and organizations play a vital role in providing services to members of our Armed Forces and their families, including financial assistance, employment assistance, tax return preparation, counseling, prayer groups, and sending care packages. 
   The resolution we considered today provides an opportunity for each of us, regardless of political views, religion, ethnicity, gender, or background to come together, and to recognize and honor our nation's heroes and those that support them and their families. 
   Though we may be divided by our positions on the war in Iraq, we stand together to support our veterans. Our nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the men and women who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We must be united in seeing that every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine is welcomed back with all the care and compassion this grateful nation can bestow. 
   All too many of our veterans are left without the help and support they need to transition from the horrors they bravely face on the front lines of battle to successful civilian life. According to the Veterans of all ages were homeless. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SCHOOL SAFETY ENHANCEMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2353, the ``School Safety Enhancements Act of 2007'', which is aimed at making America a safer place. The bill under consideration addresses health and safety issues for children. I support this bill and I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   H.R. 2353 is necessary and will ensure the protection and safety of our children in a learning environment. Violence at our schools have increased at an alarming rate in states such as California, Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin over the last few years. H.R. 2352 seeks to curb that stem of violence. 
   H.R. 2352 increases authorized annual funding from $30 million to $50 million for FY 2008-2009 for the Secure Our Schools grant program, and decreases the non-federal grant participation percentage from 50 percent to 20 percent. It requires institutions of higher education to conduct annual campus safety assessments and develop and implement campus emergency response plans. 
   This bill seeks to address the violence in our schools. It will ensure the safety of students and teachers and will make sure that education is the paramount concern of educators. 
   The Act also increases the federal portion of the funding from 50 percent to 80 percent, which decreases the non-federal portion from 50 percent to 20 percent. According to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office of the Department of Justice, which administers the Secure Our Schools grants, many of the poorer communities that need help the most have been unable to participate in the program because they cannot afford the previously required 50 percent non-federal grant match. The proposed change in non-federal funding is more in line with the COPS traditional 75/25 percent split, and should allow more participation in the program. 
   The Act increases the possible uses of funding to include surveillance equipment, hotlines to report potentially dangerous situations and capital improvements to make school facilities more secure. Finally, the Act requires the establishment of an interagency task force to develop and promulgate advisory school safety guidelines. 
   The Act amends the existing requirements for grant applications, and requires each grant application to be accompanied by a report, signed by the chief education officer and the attorney general or other chief legal officer, demonstrating that the proposed use of the grant funds is an effective means for improving school safety, is consistent with a comprehensive approach to preventing school violence, and meets the individualized needs of the particular school. 
   Finally, the Act amends the Higher Education Act and requires each eligible participating institution to conduct an annual campus safety assessment, and develop and implement a campus emergency response plan to address emergency situations, including natural disasters, active shooter situations, and terrorist attacks. The bill is sponsored by Mr. ROTHMAN, and has 52 cosponsors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE AND TERRORISM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5167, the ``Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act.'' This bill was sponsored by Representative Braley of Iowa. The bill's purpose is to amend the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 to remove the authority of the President to waive certain provisions. I support this bill and I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   H.R. 5167, the Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act, responds to harms suffered by U.S. nationals under the Government of Iraq during the 1991 Gulf War and their efforts to hold Iraq, then a designated foreign state sponsor of terrorism, liable for their injuries. H.R. 5167 presents a new proposal to facilitate the settlement of these claims. 
   This bill is important and necessary. I was shocked when I found out that the President was going to veto the Defense Authorization bill on Christmas Eve. The President vetoed the $3.5 billion authorization package that would have provided resources for military members, their families, and veterans, because it contained a provision that would have allowed Operation Desert Storm Prisoners of  War, POW, to continue their case against the Hussein regime. 
   In 2002, 17 American ex-prisoners of war were brutally tortured in Iraq during the first Persian Gulf War sued Saddam Hussein's regime. The veterans eventually won a judgement against Hussein. But shortly after the invasion of Iraq, the Bush administration stepped in and had the judgement overturned. 
   According to a Dec. 28 report in Congressional Quarterly, President Bush issued his veto after lawyers for the Iraqi Government threatened to withdraw $25 billion worth of assets from U.S. banks if the provisions was allowed to become law. The American POWs were granted damages by a U.S. district court in July 2003. The court awarded $959 million in compensatory and punitive damages to the 17 POWs--some of whom remain on active duty today and are serving in Iraq. 
   But earlier in 2003, after signing a bill that allowed Americans to collect court-ordered damages from the frozen assets of terrorist states--a list that included Iraq at that time--President Bush had confiscated what was then $1.7 billion in Iraqi assets held in private banks. He allowed the payment of two judgments including one for so-called ``human shield'' hostages held in Iraq in 1990, but none for the Americans taken prisoner in the 1991 Gulf War. 
   The President chose to respect corporate interests over human interests and corporate rights over human rights. This is something that the American people have seen from this administration in the past in unrelated matters. 
   This bill, H.R. 5167, the ``the Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act'' restores a provision in the previously vetoed Defense bill that would allow American veterans and victims of torture to pursue legal claims against their torturers. 
   Simply put, American veterans tortured as prisoners of war do not deserve to be left behind by a presidential policy that keeps them from seeking justice. We need to hold countries accountable for torturing American troops so it never happens again. We need to get our priorities straight. Protecting American veterans and POWs should come before protecting a country's assets. 
   We must act today to correct this problem. I urge my colleagues to act with me, and support this bill. A strong bipartisan message of support needs to be displayed by this body to right the wrongs and send a message to the President that American soldiers deserve better. The message is clear: American soldiers deserve the right to bring torturers to justice. I invite my colleagues to stand with me today and support this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MISSING ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE PATIENT ALERT PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, thank you for your leadership in bringing this bill to the floor. I support H.R. 6503, to amend the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Thousands of vulnerable older adults go missing each year as a result of dementia, diminished capacity, foul play or other unusual circumstances. The Alzheimer's Foundation of America estimates that over five million Americans suffer from Alzheimer's disease, and that 60 percent of these are likely to wander from their homes. Alzheimers diseases and other dementia related illnesses often leave their victims disoriented and confused and unable to find their way home. According to the Alzheimers Association, up to 50 of wanderers risk serious illness, injury or death if not found within 24 hours. The problem can be exacerbated greatly by national disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, that can, in a matter of hours, increase the number of missing persons by the thousands. 
   H.R. 6503 reauthorizes the existing Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. The bill authorizes $5 million for each fiscal year through 2015 for competitive grants to nonprofit organizations. The money may be used to pay for the ``costs of planning, designing, establishing, and operating locally based, proactive programs to protect and locate missing patients with Alzheimers disease and related dementias and other missing elderly individuals.'' The bill states a preference for ``national nonprofit organizations that have a direct line to patients, and families of patients, with Alzheimers disease and related dementias.'' 
   When I consider the necessity of this bill, I am reminded about the time when I was personally called upon by a constituent in the 18th Congressional District in Texas. A few years back, the family of Mr. Sammy Kirk, enlisted my help in searching for Kirk. Mr. Kirk was an elderly man, suffering from Alzheimers and he had wandered away from his family in Houston. He was lost. His family called me to help search for him. I, along with his family, searched many hours and many days. In total, I searched for three days for Mr. Kirk. Finally, Mr. Sammy Kirk was found. He was found and he was dead. He wandered many miles away from his family and was found dead along the bayou. It would have been so much easier, and his life could have been spared if there was an electronic monitoring service that could have been used to help keep Mr. Kirk close to his and family and it would have certainly aided in our search for Mr. Kirk. An innocent, yet vulnerable, life could have been saved. This bill is necessary and I encourage my colleagues to support it.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 200TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ABOLITION OF THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman from New Jersey, the chairman of the Africa Subcommittee on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I thank the author and sponsor of this legislation, it is historic. And certainly, I thank the ranking member of the full committee for her leadership and presence here on the floor today and our full committee Chair. 
   This is a day that really emphasizes the long and diverse history of this Nation. It is a day that I hope that members of this body will unanimously pass this legislation, H. Res. 272. 
   Certainly, the historic aspect of it has already been noted, some 10 million to 15 million Africans were transported as slaves across the Atlantic. It does not, however, add all of the history when you look at the broadness of this question of slavery and America. What it really did to America was carve out this issue of race. And Judge Higgenbotham made it very clear as he rendered decisions on segregation and separation, that in this Nation, race matters. This historical perspective now puts all of this horrible legacy in place, and it does so as America. It does so, it speaks to America about the horribleness of the slave trade. It adds that this was not a very positive part of America's history, but it is part of America's history. It does so in the backdrop of the commemoration of the 400th year of Jamestown, 1607. And the first slaves that came over were actually from Angola. The person who fought against the slaves who were being taken was a woman warrior of the tribes in that part. 
   Just a few weeks ago, I saw the reenactment or the refilming, if you will,  or the reshowing of Roots, the Alex Haley Roots, on TV1, interestingly enough, a station and a company owned by an African American woman. And it brought home again the fierceness of slavery, the violence of slavery, and in fact, that these slaves were taken and violated and abused. And those that came over and made it here were infected with disease, they were suffering from rape and they had been brutalized.     
   This is an important statement. But a more important statement is the vestiges of slavery, and I am glad to have joined the Honorable Congresswoman Barbara Lee and a number of others who went to South Africa to the Conference on Racism, organized by the United Nations in 2001. That was a very, very important effort, and I am glad that Members of Congress did not accept the administration's rejection of going to that conference. It was vital for us to be there. It was a vital part of the healing process, because it had to do with racism around the world. In fact, we know today that slavery still exists around the world. 
   So as we stand here today, we acknowledge the horribleness of the slave history of this country, but we also condemn slavery that exists today around the world, in parts of Asia, in parts of Africa, in parts of South and Central America, in parts of all aspects of the world, possibly even in Europe, where people are held against their will. 
   But the United Nations conference was to speak to the issue of stamping out the vestiges of slavery, so that we could do it in unity, so that we could respect each other for our dignity and for where we have come from, our religious difference, our racial difference, even our regional and country differences. 
   That is why this resolution is so important, because it says to the world that the United States House of Representatives accepts and acknowledges the wrongness of slavery, but we are going forward. We also recognize the vestiges of slavery, and we must go forward to end that separation on the basis of race. We must be able to say that race matters in a positive way.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 272, commemorating the Abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade. 
   When slavery was introduced into the European colonies in 1619, the dark days that followed ignited the faith and hope of our ancestors that one day their descendants would live in freedom and helped them bear the unbearable burden of bondage. For over 300 years, the United Kingdom and other European countries kidnapped and sold millions of Africans into slavery; contemporary historians estimate that between 9.4 and 12 million Africans arrived in the new world. Although on March 25, 1807, the United Kingdom outlawed the African Slave trade by passing the Slave Trade Abolition Act, the road to freedom was a perilous one, and without Abolitionist movements, protests, and opposition, would not have been realized. 
   Madam Speaker, it is important to commemorate this occasion so that the world will not quickly forget the incorrigible injustices African-Americans suffered as slaves and the humiliation and degradation they bore when they were taken and adjudged to be real estate, the same category as livestock, household furniture, wagons and goods. 
   Although slavery was long, vicious and arduous, African slaves were instrumental in the economic development of this Nation and allowed Europe and the United States of America to be built. Slaves were the foundation of the country--today we recognize the end of this heinous trade of human cargo. It was from the institutional slave trade of Africans that the strong African-American people who have survived despite racism and second class citizenship emerged in the United States. 
   As we condemn the atrocities, human rights abuses, and modern-day slavery worldwide, it would be hypocritical if we did not acknowledge the history of the transatlantic slave trade and slavery that existed not long ago in our country. 
   The end of slavery did not come to pass until 1865, when the United States ratified the 13th amendment to the constitution. But the fight for equality against injustices, though easier today, still carries on. The consequences of the slave trade have been profound and the scars that it produced still have not healed. The most serious legacy is the endurance of racism in various forms that keep changing, but do not seem to dissipate. 
   Madam Speaker, we are committed to overcoming this legacy and assuring a just world society. The dignity of African-Americans demands recognition of the tragic history of the slavery era. It is for that reason that I rise in strong support of H. Res. 272, commemorating the 200th Anniversary of the Abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade. I urge all members to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN DOESN'T WORK, SIGN THE BILL -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, that's the value of this great country, it is that the will of the people can be heard by those of us who represent them. The will of the people always will be to bring our soldiers home. 
   It's interesting that our colleagues are talking about funding that doesn't exist when they know full well that there is funding until July of 2007 minimally. But, really, the message of the Democrats, the legislation of the Democrats, is not to micromanage, it is a bill that this President, who declared victory 4 years ago on an aircraft, should sign, because it leaves the logistics of the war to the generals, but it indicates that the people have spoken, it's time to bring our troops home. 
   Does this body recognize that the Maliki government has begun to purge generals trained by this United States military, who have shown themselves to be balanced and fair, who have shown them themselves to fight against insurgents. The Maliki government is a complete collapse, it is a failure. 
   It is time now to reorder the government to allow allies that are in the surrounding areas to work. It is important for Secretary Rice to be in Iran, to talk to those in Iran and to make sure that we have a plan that works. The President's plan doesn't work. Sign the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF CINCO DE MAYO -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 347. I rise to recognize the historical importance of the Mexican holiday Cinco de Mayo. The fifth day of May, or Cinco de Mayo, is a special day because it represents the importance of freedom, liberty and determination for the people of Mexico and for Mexican-Americans. It was on that day, May 5, 1862, that untrained, outnumbered, and outgunned Mexican forces--determined to protect their land--successfully defended the town of Puebla against the French. 
   The quest for an independent Mexico started on September 16, 1810, when the people of Mexico, following the will to become a free nation, refused to submit to Spanish rule. The struggle went on for 10 years. Finally, in 1821, the first independent Mexican government was established. 
   But being an independent nation was not easy. Over the years, Mexico received economic support from several nations, France and England among them. Later on, even Spain supported the new country. Thus, Mexico became heavily indebted to foreign powers. Due to ongoing political unrest caused by many groups struggling for power, Mexico was not able to pay back the loans. On July 17, 1861, President Benito Juarez issued a moratorium in which all-foreign debt payments would be suspended for a period of two years, with the promise that after this period, payments would resume. 
   In 1862, France, Spain, and England dispatched their fleets to Mexican shores pursuing not only money but also land rights as payment for their loans. A government representative greeted them and explained that Mexico acknowledge its debts, but had no funds to pay them. They were offered payment warrants in exchange. 
   The Spaniards and the British decided to accept the warrants and withdrew from the scene. But the French government's representative did not accept the offer and ordered his troops to invade the country and head toward Mexico City, the nation's capital. They had to cross through the state of Puebla to get to the capital. 
   Mexican President Benito Juarez. reacted immediately and prepared the defense. He commanded Ignacio Zaragoza, a young and brave General, to fortify the City of Puebla and repel the French invaders. 
   The battle was by no means even. France, under Louis Napoleon's rule, had the world's most powerful army, and sent more than six thousand men to invade Mexico. But the courage and the love of freedom impelled the Mexican people to fight back. 
   General Ignacio Zaragoza led 5,000 ill-equipped Mestizo and Zapotec Indians called Zacapoaxtlas. On the 5th of May 1862, the forts of Loreto and Guadalupe, in the city of Puebla, became the scene of the historical defeat of the great European army. Against overwhelming odds, they managed to drive back the French army, achieving a total victory over soldiers deemed 
   among the best trained and equipped in the world and embarking on the end of the European domination in America. 
   For Mexico, this day has come to represent a symbol of Mexican unity and patriotism in the history of Mexico. In our country, Cinco de Mayo is also a celebration of the rich cultural heritage Mexican Americans have brought to the United States. 
   Hispanics are the fastest-growing minority group in the United States. According to the most recent data available, the estimated Hispanic population in the U.S. is 42.7 million--constituting 14 percent of our nation's population. 
   Hispanics now own a record number of small businesses--1.6 million, with annual revenues of more than $221 billion. Small businesses create two-thirds of American jobs, and the fastest-growing small business sector is Latino-owned firms. 
   Today, there are 30 Hispanic Members in the United States Congress, including 24 Democrats, many of whom are Mexican-American, representing constituencies in all regions of the country, from California to New York, from Arizona to Illinois, from Colorado to Florida. 
   These gains and numbers tell us that Hispanics are a driving force in our country--economically, socially and politically. Hispanics share the common goals with all other Americans of freedom, opportunity, and a chance to build a better life. In pursuing these aspirations, Hispanics have made important contributions to life in the United States in the fields of culture, sports, entertainment, business enterprise, science, politics and others. 
   On Saturday, May 5th, millions of Americans will join our neighbors to the south in celebrating Cinco de Mayo. On this day, we are reminded that all people--regardless of their race, color, or gender--have enriched cultures and are worthy of respect and self-determination. 
   I am happy to be here today to celebrate this momentous day and to recognize the values, traditions, and positive contributions of  the Mexican culture. I urge all members to join me in supporting H. Res. 347, and commemorate the historical significance of Cinco de Mayo.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NO PERMANENT BASES IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Yesterday, the President of the United States went to South Carolina to address the United States military to convince them that the al Qaeda network in Iraq is part of the international network of al Qaeda. But as I rise to support the legislation that will appear on the floor today, No Permanent Bases in Iraq, I rise vigorously to support this important legislation, that I have co-sponsored. 
   The National Intelligence Estimate has been very clear, and that is that al Qaeda has become stronger because of our military presence in Iraq. It's time now to make the statement and the decision, no permanent military bases of the United States in Iraq. 
   Four thousand lives, almost, of our soldiers have been lost. They are our heroes. We claim they are our heroes. They've done their job. It is time now, Mr. President, to redeploy our soldiers in a safe manner and recognize the misdirected war in Iraq, political reconciliation is the answer. 
   It is time now for the Iraqis and the Prime Minister to stand up, along with the sister states in the region, and establish the reconciliation goverment for Iraq. Please support No Permanent Bases in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise in support of H.R. 1591, the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' I commend the leadership of the Speaker and her team and Chairman OBEY and Defense Subcommittee Chairman MURTHA for their patient and careful crafting of the bill. 
   I stand in strong support of our troops who have performed magnificently in battle with a grace under pressure that is distinctively American. I stand with the American people, who have placed their trust in the President,  the Vice-President, and the former Secretary of Defense, each of whom abused the public trust and patience. 
   I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid nearly $400 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,222 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. 
   For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I stand fully, strongly, and unabashedly in support of H.R. 1591, which for the first time puts the Congress on record against an open-ended war whose goal line is always moving. 
   Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would subject the funding request to 
   more rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing national priorities. 
   The vote today will put the House on record squarely against the Bush Administration's policy of looking the other way while the Iraqi government fails to govern a country worthy of a free people with as much commitment and dedication to the security and happiness of its citizens as has been shown by the heroic American servicemen and women who risked their lives and, in the case of over 3,000 fallen heroes, lost their lives to win for the Iraqi people the chance to draft their own constitution, hold their own free elections, establish their own government, and build a future of peace and prosperity for themselves and their posterity. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of all members of Congress. Many good ideas have been advanced by members of Congress to bring to a successful conclusion the American military engagement in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is a product of compromise. The bill before us is no different. If it was left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract provisions which we think would improve the bill. Indeed, more than fifty amendments were offered to H.R. 1591, including four submitted by me. In fact, the only amendments voted on by the Rules Committee were two of the amendments I offered, although neither was made in order this time. 
   The first of these amendments, Jackson Lee Amendment No. 1, would terminate the authority granted by Congress to the President in the 2002 Authorization for the Use of Military Force in Iraq because the objectives for which the authorization was granted have all been achieved. Specifically, Congress authorized the President to use military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives: 
   1. To disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could threaten the security of the United States and international peace in the Persian Gulf region; 
   2. To change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors; 
   3. To bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001; 
   4. To ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al Qaeda; and 
   5. To enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq. 
   Thanks to the skill and valor of the Armed Forces of the United States we now know for certain that Iraq does not possess weapons of mass destruction. Thanks to the tenacity and heroism of American troops, Saddam Hussein was deposed, captured, and dealt with by the Iraqi people in such a way that neither he nor his Baathist Party will ever again pose a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors in the region. Nor will the regime ever acquire and provide weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists. Also, the American military has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in Iraq remotely responsible for the 9/11 attack on our country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been enforced. 
   In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved, most with spectacular success thanks to the professionalism and superior skill of our service men and women. The point of my amendment was to recognize, acknowledge, and honor this fact. 
   My second amendment, Jackson Lee Amendment No. 4, would change the troop reference date for redeployment set forth in section 1904 from March 1, 2008, to December 31, 2007. What this means is that the Government of Iraq will have had more than 3 years since the United States turned over sovereignty to establish a sustainable government with secure borders that can protect its people. I believe that if the Allied Forces could win World War III in less than 4 years, certainly that is enough time for the Government of Iraq to provide for the security of its people, with the substantial assistance of the United States. 
   While there are many good proposals that have been advanced which are not included in the bill, we ought not to let the perfect become the enemy of the good. This emergency supplemental may not be perfect but it is better--far better--than any legislation relating to the war in Iraq that has ever been brought to the floor far a vote. Let me count the ways. 
   First, H.R. 1591 ensures that U.S. forces in the field have all of the resources they require. Second, the bill directs more resources to the war against al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. Third it improves healthcare for returning service members and veterans. Fourth, it establishes a timeline for ending the United States participation in Iraq's civil war. Last, it demands accountability by 
   conditioning continued American military involvement in Iraq upon certification by the President that the Iraq Government is making meaningful and substantial progress in meeting political and military benchmarks, including a militia disarmament program and a plan that equitably shares oil revenues among all Iraqis. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to take a few minutes to discuss why the American people believe so strongly that the time has come to an end the policy of not placing any demands or conditions on American military assistance to the Government of Iraq. 
   As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, and a former senior member of the NSC, brilliantly describes in his essay, ``The Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A Retrospective Analysis Of The Reconstruction,'' in Middle East Review of International Affairs (December 2006), our trust and patience has been repaid by a record of incompetence unmatched in the annals of American foreign policy. 
   The Bush administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored intelligence that contradicted its own views. 
   It is clear now that the Administration simply never believed in the necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the White House Office of the Vice President (OVP) worked together to ensure that the State Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the reconstruction of Iraq. 
   The Administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would therefore be capable of running the country and providing Iraqis with basic services. They likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would largely remain cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The result of all this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic planning for the postwar environment. 
   As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. The dearth of planning for the provision of security and 
   basic services stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those responsibilities. 
   But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the need to mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it brought the entire offensive to a halt. 
   It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in Iraq. 
   The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment. 
   Making matters worse, the Administration arrogantly denied the United Nations overall  authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. had far more expertise and experience in nation building. 
   The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the Administration's claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military and security services. 
   Mr. Speaker, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain (DDR) the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to entice, cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an outlaw militia. 
   By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency. 
   The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to create an Iraqi Governing Council (IGC), which laid the foundation for many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed. 
   Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush administration set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the wrong problems. 
   This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were playing ``whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to take-over by militias. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central government itself. 
   All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican 
   Congress. They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act provides real benchmarks and consequences if the Iraqi Government fails to live up to its commitments. First, it requires the President to certify and report to Congress on July 1, 2007 that real progress is underway on key benchmarks for the Iraqi government. If the President cannot so certify, redeployment of U.S. troops must begin immediately and be completed within 180 days. If the President fails to certify that Iraq has met the benchmarks on October 1, 2007, a redeployment of U.S. troops would begin immediately at that time and must be completed within 180 days. In any case, at the latest, a redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq must begin by March 1, 2008, and must be completed by August 31, 2008. 
   Since the benchmarks the Iraqi Government must meet are those established pursuant to President Bush's policies, it is passing strange indeed that he would threaten to veto the bill since it necessarily means he would veto his own benchmarks for the performance of the Iraqi government. He would veto his own readiness standards for U.S. troops. The President demands this Congress send him an Iraq war bill with ``no strings.'' But the only ``strings'' attached, Mr. Speaker, are the benchmarks and standards imposed by the President himself. 
   Mr. Speaker, in addition to the enormous financial cost, the human cost to the men and women of the United States Armed Forces has also been high but they have willingly paid it. Operation Iraqi Freedom has exacerbated the Veterans' Administration health care facility maintenance backlog; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training 
   and readiness requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. 
   The emergency supplemental acknowledges the sacrifices made by, and the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces of the United States. But more than that, it makes a substantial down payment on that debt by providing substantial increases in funding for our troops. 
   The supplemental includes a total appropriation of $2.8 billion for Defense Health Care, which is $1.7 billion above the President's request. The additional funding supports new initiatives to enhance medical services for active duty forces and mobilized personnel, and their family members. Included in this new funding is $450 million for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Counseling; $450 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research; $730 million to prevent health care fee increases for our troops; $20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed; and $14.8 million for burn care. 
   Unlike the Republican leadership of the 109th Congress and the Bush administration, the new Democratic majority is committed to America's veterans. What's more, we back up that commitment by investing in their well-being. For example, the bill includes $1.7 billion above the President's request for initiatives to address the health care needs of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities, including $550 million to address the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities so as to prevent the VA from experiencing a situation similar to that found at Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   The bill includes an additional $250 million for medical administration to ensure there are sufficient personnel to support the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain a high level of services for all veterans; $229 million for treating the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans; $100 million for contract mental health care, which will allow the VA to contract with private mental health care providers to ensure that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are seen in the most timely and least disruptive fashion, including members of the Guard and Reserve; and $62 million to speed up the processing of claims of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Mr. Speaker, when American troops are sent into harm's way, America has an obligation to do all it can to minimize the risk of harm to the troops. That is why I am pleased the supplemental 
   includes additional funding above the President's request to support our troops. We are providing $2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of our stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped and trained. We include $1.4 billion more for military housing allowances and $311 million more for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for troops in Iraq. And there is included in the supplemental $222 million more for infrared countermeasures for Air Force aircraft to address the growing threat against U.S. air operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Equally important, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental contains language directing the President to adhere to current military guidelines for unit readiness, deployments, and time between deployments. 
   The supplemental requires the Defense Department to abide by its current Unit Readiness policy, requiring the chief of the military department concerned to determine that a unit is ``fully mission capable'' before it is deployed to Iraq. The President may waive this provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's deployment is in the interests of national security despite the assessment that the unit is not fully mission capable. 
   The Defense Department is also required to abide by its current policy and avoid extending the deployment of units in Iraq in excess of 365 days for the Army and 210 days for the Marines. The provision may be waived by the President only by submitting a report to Congress detailing the particular reason or reasons why the unit's extended deployment is in the interests of national security. 
   Mr. Speaker, to reduce the incidence of combat fatigue and enhance readiness, it is  important that our troops have sufficient time out of the combat zone and training between deployments. The supplemental requires the Defense Department to abide by its current policy and avoid sending units back into Iraq before troops get the required time away from the war theater. The President may waive this provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's early redeployment to Iraq is in the interests of national security. 
   Last but not least, Mr. Speaker, it must be noted that the cost of the war in Iraq to the United States has also been high regarding the new and neglected needs of the American people. Americans have been exceedingly tolerant and patient with this Administration's handling of the situation in Iraq. We have 
   postponed, foregone, or neglected needed investments in education, infrastructure, housing, homeland security. 
   That is why I am very pleased that the supplemental includes the following $4.3 billion for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster recovery grants, including $910 million to cover the cost of waiving the matching fund requirements in the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. &#167;5174 (Public Law 93-288) (Stafford Act) for state and local government meaning the Federal government will finance 100 percent of the grants. 
   Waiving the Stafford Act's matching fund requirement is critically important to the Gulf Coast states devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Based on my multiple listening trips to New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region, and my numerous meetings and discussions with government officials at all levels in the affected states and with survivors of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, many of whom now are relocated to my Houston congressional district, the most important lesson I have learned is that the Stafford Act is in its present form is simply inadequate to address the scale of devastation and human suffering wrought by a disaster the magnitude of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I thank Mr. Obey and Mr. Murtha for responding to concerns I expressed to President Bush about the need to modernize the Stafford Act so that it remains relevant to the 21st Century. 
   I believe the Stafford Act must be amended to grant the federal government explicit authority and flexibility to provide long-term recovery assistance to communities devastated by disasters of the magnitude of Hurricane Katrina and Rita. Such authority currently does not exist and the Stafford Act's emphasis on temporary assistance to affected individuals and communities is simply inadequate to address the scope of human suffering we witnessed last August and which is still with us today. I will continue my efforts to modernize the Stafford Act. But I very strongly approve of the nearly $1 billion included in the bill to waive the matching fund requirements for hard-pressed state and local governments coping with emergencies of the scale of Hurricane Katrina. 
   Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) funding has been extended to September 30, 2010. SSBG funding provides critically needed social services, including programs for mental health, child welfare, and the treatment of addictive disorders. 
   Also allocated is $1.3 billion for east and west bank levee protection and coastal restoration systems in New Orleans and surrounding parishes. 
   There is included $25 million for Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster loans and $80 million for U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) tenant-based rental assistance. The supplemental also adds $400 million to restore partial cuts to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This funding will bring much needed relief to many States that are running out of LIHEAP funds just as many utility shut-off moratoriums are set to expire. 
   The supplemental adds $750 million to the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to ensure continued healthcare coverage for children in 14 States that face a budget shortfall in the program. By taking prompt action now, these States will not be forced to stop enrolling new beneficiaries or begin curtailing benefits. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental provides $30 million for K-12 education recruitment assistance; $30 million for higher education assistance; and $40 million in security assistance for Liberia. It also includes an additional $1 billion to purchase vaccines needed to protect Americans from a global pandemic. Development of production capacity for a pandemic vaccine must be accelerated so that manufacturers can quickly produce enough quantities to protect the population. 
   In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, let me say that although the bill may not be the best I might have hoped for, I have concluded that it is the best that can be achieved at this time, this moment in history. I support the bill because I believe it represents a change of course and a new direction in our policy on Iraq. This bill will place us on the road that will reunite our troops with their families and bring them home with honor and success. 
   Mr. Speaker, the bill before is not asking us to expand or extend the war in Iraq. I would not and will not do that. On the contrary, this bill offers us the first real chance to vote to end the war. This bill puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home where we can ``care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' This bill helps to repair the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. This bill brings long overdue oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. 
   Most important, Mr. Speaker, this bill offers us the first real chance to vote to end the war. We should take advantage of this opportunity. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1591, the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VIOLENT RADICALIZATION AND HOMEGROWN TERRORISM PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1955, the Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorist Prevention Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative HARMAN. This important legislation recognizes the threat of homegrown terrorism and seeks to address this burgeoning problem while maintaining the civil rights and liberties of American citizens. 
   Since May of this year, two separate plots against strategic American targets have been foiled and prevented by American officials. What distinguishes them from previous terrorist plots against the United States is that the potential terrorists here have no contact with nor support from Al-Qaeda or any other overseas terrorist cells. America must be unique in its approach to homegrown terrorism, given the civil rights and civil liberties protections that are unique to America and enjoyed by all American citizens. 
   As a senior Member of the Committee on Homeland Security and Chair of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure, I believe we can secure our homeland and remain true to our values simultaneously. The Muslim American community has grown in size and prominence, and is an integral part of the fabric of this Nation. Muslim Americans share the same values and ideals that make this Nation great. Ideals such as discipline, generosity, peace and moderation. 
   Many years of civil rights jurisprudence and law have been ignored and thrown out the window when the racial profiling, harassment, and discrimination of Muslim and Arab Americans is permitted to occur with impunity. These practices show a reckless and utter disregard for the fundamental values on which our country is founded: namely, due process, the presumption of innocence, nondiscrimination, individualized rather than group suspicion, and equitable application of the law. We cannot allow xenophobia, prejudice, and bigotry to prevail, and eviscerate the Constitution we are bound to protect. 
   The securing of our homeland and protection of our national security is on the forefront of my agenda. However, using 9/11 as an impetus to engage in racial profiling, harassment, and discrimination of Muslim and Arab Americans is not only deplorable, it undermines our civil liberties and impedes our success in the global war on terror. We must fight our war on terror without compromising our freedoms and liberties. 
   It is precisely for these reasons that I so strongly support H.R. 1955. This Act calls for the creation of the National Commission to examine the various causes of violent radicalization and homegrown terrorism in order to propose concrete and meaningful recommendations and legislative strategies in order to alleviate these threats. It also establishes a Center of Excellence for the Prevention of Radicalization and Home Grown Terrorism that will study the social, criminal, political, psychological and economic roots of the problem as well as provide homeland security officials across the government with suggestions for preventing radicalization and homegrown terrorism. Furthermore, it requires our homeland security officials to thoroughly examine the experiences of other nations that have experienced homegrown terrorism so that our government might learn from those experiences. As such, H.R. 1955 does more than merely address the current situation with regard to homegrown terrorism but also works to identify the causes behind the problem and address them as well. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SECURE HANDLING OF AMMONIUM NITRATE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1680, legislation critical to securing our nation against further acts of terrorism. I am proud to co-sponsor this legislation, which I believe effectively balances necessary measures to provide additional security with the need to protect our agricultural industry . 
   On September 11th, 2001, our enemies demonstrated their ability to use everyday objects as deadly weapons. Ammonium nitrate is a product of great use to our nation's agricultural sectors, but, in the hands of terrorists, could cause America great harm. Like the airplanes flown into buildings, fertilizer bombs have been used to deadly effect, beginning infamously with the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. We need to balance these very real security concerns against the vital value of ammonium nitrate fertilizer to the U.S. plant food industry, its many local retail agribusiness outlets, and the farmers and livestock producers they serve. 
   Ammonium nitrate fertilizes our nation's crops, and it helps the American economy grow. It provides a relatively inexpensive source of the nitrogen required to grow crops, and it has economic, agronomic, and environmental benefits to the entire society. It can also, however, be used to create explosive devices, as demonstrated by the Oklahoma City bombing as well as by subsequent terrorist plots in 2000, 2002, 2003, and 2004. 
   According to a 1998 National Research Council report, ``Containing the Threat From Illegal Bombings,'' short of a method of neutralizing the explosive properties of ammonium nitrate, which we do not yet have, commercial controls and regulatory action ``offer the best means of reducing the threat from illegal bombings.'' 
   H.R. 1680 will require the creation of these controls and regulations. This bill will provide the Department of Homeland Security with the authority to develop a nationally consistent, effective, and integrated approach to control access to ammonium nitrate, and it will require the Department to develop a regulatory system aimed at keeping these fertilizers away from those who would use it to threaten our nation. Under the provisions of this legislation, the Department of Homeland Security will register all producers, sellers, and purchasers of ammonium nitrate, and those who purchase and take custody of this product will be required to provide their names, addresses, and telephone numbers to the Department. All of these individuals will be accountable for any ammonium nitrate they take possession of. 
   In addition, this legislation will require producers and sellers to maintain records of all sales and transfers for at least three years. Sellers will have the right to refuse sale to prevent misappropriation of this potentially dangerous substance, and they will be provided with guidance on identifying suspicious activity, as well as how to alert law enforcement officials to such behavior. Additionally, producers and sellers will be required to report any loss or theft to law enforcement within 24 hours. 
   This legislation also provides further means for enforcement, establishing a process for the Department to track, monitor, and audit the ammonium nitrate records. Under the provisions of this bill, enforcement may be delegated to States where cooperative agreements and sufficient funding exist. To punish violations, the Department may levy civil fines of up to $50,000. This legislation does not preempt or alter any State statute providing additional protection against ammonium nitrate falling into the hands of terrorists. 
   Yet in our counterterrorism efforts we should not lose sight of the need to protect the American farmer, especially small farmers struggling to make ends meet on the family farm. Ammonium nitrate is an essential tool they use to sustain themselves and their families and those essential needs should not be overlooked. Our counter-terrorism efforts should not be detrimental to the continued availability of ammonium nitrate fertilizer to U.S. farmers, endangering their way of life and threatening their livelihoods. 
   H.R. 1680 offers an opportunity to strengthen our defenses against the threat of terrorism without placing an extraordinary burden on industry. This legislation has the support of The Fertilizer Institute, an industry group representing most fertilizer producers. 
   Mr. Speaker, as our nation's leaders, it is our responsibility to be proactive, and to make every effort to remain several steps ahead of any who might attack our country. This bill is an opportunity to do just that, to not wait for another devastating attack to address what we already recognize to be a serious security threat. I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WATER QUALITY FINANCING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, let me thank the chairman for his leadership and the chairwoman of the subcommittee, Eddie Bernice Johnson, for her leadership. 
   Texas, under the President's budget, lost $18 million, and with the restoration of the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund of $14 billion, we will see now the possibility of the restoration of $49,413,000, a total that we had in the 2007 funding level and going up. 
   I know what it is like to deal with communities that do not have clean water. Bordersville in Houston, Texas, now has the opportunity to engage and use these dollars to build this community and develop clean water. The EPA recognizes that we have had difficulty across America and water crises and bad water. 
   This bill makes a good statement. It also makes the positive statement on prevailing wages. There simply is no excuse to not give people a living wage, and that is what prevailing wages are all about. 
   I want to thank my colleagues for recognizing that water is the source of life and the importance of making sure that the 34 percent cut by this Republican Congress in years past now needs to be amended and fixed. Today we fix it. 
   I rise in support of H.R. 720, and I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 720, the ``Water Quality Financing Act of 2007,'' which authorizes $14 billion over four years for the clean water State Revolving Fund (SRF) for fiscal years 2008 through 2011. This bill will go a long way toward restoring the $18 million cut in Texas share of the SRF. 
   Under the SRF program, the Environmental Protection Agency provides grants to States, and the States provide matching funds to establish a low-cost loan program to enable communities to upgrade wastewater treatment systems. 
   Madam Chairman, the Administration has not sought reauthorization for the revolving fund, preferring to turn the revolving fund into a self-sustaining loan program that is replenished by interest payments made on loans. 
   H.R. 720 reauthorizes the program at an annual funding level of $4 billion per year, well above the level of $1 billion contained in the fiscal year 2007 appropriations bill for EPA currently working its way through Congress. 
   The bill would extend repayment periods for revolving fund loans up to 30 years, require a State to use part of its funding to provide subsidies for disadvantaged communities, and authorize $75 million annually in technical assistance to rural and small wastewater treatment projects. 
   H.R. 720 also directs the Government Accountability Office to study potential revenue sources to set up a Clean Water Trust Fund and encourage communities to consider ``green infrastructure'' such as the use of rain gardens to collect storm water runoff. The bill also uses water quality benefits and a watershed approach as the criteria to prioritize which projects receive funding. 
   Madam Chairman, it is no exaggeration to state that the Clean Water Act is the Nation's most successful environmental law. But the continued high quality of the Nation's water supplies is imperiled because over the past six years the Congress has not invested enough funding to replace or repair the aging and deteriorating wastewater infrastructure. 
   The State revolving fund's steady source of Federal funding ran out when reauthorization expired in 1994. Since then, Congress has been unable to get any bills affecting the fund through the House or the Senate because of disputes over Davis-Bacon Act requirements that local prevailing wages be paid on projects receiving Federal funds. Instead, Congress has been appropriated funds for the SRF on an annual basis, but at declining levels. The lack of a steady, dependable source of funding has had a detrimental effect on the ability of water management agencies to repair, build, and upgrade the Nation's water quality infrastructure. It puts at risk the Nation's clean water. 
   Madam Chairman, according to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Government Accountability Office (GAO), there is a ``funding gap'' of $300 billion to $500 billion over 20 years between what is needed and what is actually spent on our water quality infrastructure. Without a Federal recommitment to clean water, the costs of maintaining existing and 
   aging infrastructure further stressed by ever increasing population and industrial demands, as well as new and costly Clean Water Act requirements must be borne at the local level. 
   Madam Chairman, the needs of municipalities, counties, and towns have simply outgrown the funding levels of the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF). The SRF program has been under siege since 2004, plummeting from $1.35 billion in 2004 to less than $700 million proposed for 2007. A dedicated source of Federal funding must be identified to assure adequate and continued financial assistance to municipalities to meet the goals of the Federal water quality program. H.R. 720 takes a major step in this direction and provides a significant down payment on the investment that must be made to ensure the quality of the Nation's water supply. 
   Madam Chairman, I support the objectives of establishing a Clean Water Trust fund. Such a dedicated trust fund for clean water will ensure that infrastructure modernization and maintenance remains a priority and will secure the long-term viability of the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF), while also adding a significant grant component to help communities fully achieve the goals of the Clean Water Act. 
   I also support expanded eligibility under the SRF for water conservation measures. This would enable consumers to make more efficient use of treated water, including incentives for the modification, retirement, replacement of customer-owned water-using equipment, appliances, plumbing fixtures, and landscape materials. Saving water through improved efficiency can lessen the need to withdraw ground or surface water supplies for municipal or industrial demands. Strategic use of water conservation not only helps save the Nation's water resources but also can help extend the value and life of both water supply and wastewater treatment infrastructure, extending the beneficial investment of public funds. 
   Finally, Madam Chairman, I strongly support the Davis-Bacon provisions in H.R. 720 requiring that workers on projects funded through the SRF not be paid less than the prevailing wage. By guaranteeing payment of the prevailing local wage rate, Davis-Bacon provides  a better standard of living and economic security for these workers. 
   Madam Chairman, Davis-Bacon ``prevailing wage'' standards are set by scientific surveys of actual wages paid in local communities. Accordingly, Davis-Bacon wages in lower-cost areas such as rural communities and small towns are closely tied to existing local wages and therefore ensure a reasonable wage comparable to those earned by other workers in that community. Obviously, the prevailing wage rates in higher-cost areas such as major urban centers are higher because the average wage and cost-of-living are higher. Moreover, in 1981, the implementing regulations for Davis-Bacon were specifically amended to prohibit the Department of Labor from using wage data collected in urban areas to make a prevailing wage determination in a nearby rural county. 
   Madam Chairman, I will strongly oppose any amendments by the minority to eliminate, weaken, or alter the Davis-Bacon provisions within this legislation. These are the latest in a long history of Republican attacks on the Davis-Bacon Act and the protections it provides to workers. Not only have three Republican presidents temporarily suspended the Act, but many of Republican colleagues have sought to repeal it altogether. 
   For all of these reasons, I strongly support H.R. 720 and urge all my colleagues to join me in voting for its adoption by the House. I also call upon my colleagues to oppose any amendments to weaken this critical legislation that will address the real needs of the American people.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (BRING OUR TROOPS HOME WITH DIGNITY -- (House of Representatives - March 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, some semblance of security in Baghdad, but chlorine bombs in Anbar province and other parts of Iraq, the fourth-year anniversary of this country's offensive on the nation state of Iraq. 
   It is interesting that as we continue to watch our young people fall in battle, heroes that they are, and veterans come home, that the executive in this body, this Congress, this House and the other body cannot come to grips with a forward path for solving and reconciling the war in Iraq. 
   It is interesting that our Commander in Chief desires to tell us that we must stay the course, a refrain that we have heard over and over again. 
   My plea would be let us sit down at the table of reconciliation. Let us not suggest that people who stand for conscience are unpatriotic, and let us resolve to bring our troops home together in dignity and with success. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOUSE PAGE BOARD REVISION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 475, the House Page Board Revision Act of 2007. I thank my colleagues, Mr. KILDEE, the gentleman from Michigan, and Mrs. CAPITO, the gentlewoman from West Virginia, for their good work in crafting this bipartisan legislation, which will do much to ensure the safety of the pages that serve the United States Congress. 
   In view of recent events, parents everywhere are right to be concerned for the safety of their children--after all, if children are not safe in the Capitol, the seat of the National Government, can they be safe anywhere? It is  important that we pass this legislation today to reassure the public that the Capitol is safe for children, including pages. 
   The scandal that erupted on September 29, 2007, involving former Representative Mark Foley's predatory conduct toward House pages, and coverup by the senior House Republican leadership, has led some to call for the termination of the Page Program. In my view, that would have been a terrible mistake and a terrible commentary upon the ability of the House of Representatives to ensure the safety of the children entrusted to its care. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Page Program needs to be mended not ended. The teenagers who serve as congressional pages are outstanding young men and women, invariably chosen because of their high achievement and outstanding service to their community. Service as a page is often a stepping stone to greater public service and nearly always a window into history. The program's alumni include Representative TOM DAVIS, Representative DAN BOREN, Senator CHRISTOPHER DODD, and Microsoft founder Bill Gates. 
   Instead of eliminating the page program, we need to get rid of sexual predators in office. An important part of the new Democratic majority's agenda is end the culture of corruption that pervaded the previous Congress and to make the 110th Congress the most ethical Congress in history. 
   The page program is a good thing; the kids that are in it are good kids. Right now, security for pages in Washington includes curfews, a buddy system when they leave their dormitory, 24-hour security at the residence hall, sign-outs when the pages leave, parental notification for many extracurricular activities, and a pre-program orientation laying out acceptable and unacceptable behavior for pages. 
   Mr. Speaker, as the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am proud to support this legislation today. I support H.R. 475 because it will ensure more oversight of the Page Program in Congress, thus reducing substantially the risk of exposing pages to harmful persons or conduct. We must show America that we are striving to keep America's children safe, starting here on Capitol Hill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple, and it sends a very important message to the United States Congress. As I do that, let me thank the chairman of the full committee and the chairman of the subcommittee and all of those who are prepared to work in a bipartisan manner. I can see that the tone has changed on this particular bill because this is an amendment that was accepted last year. 
   My amendment is simple, as I said. It emphasizes the importance of urban forests and preserves our ability to return urban areas to healthy and safe living environments for our children. An identical amendment was offered to last year's appropriations bill, H.R. 5386, and was adopted by voice vote. 
   This amendment emphasizes surveys that indicate that some urban forests are in serious danger. In the past 30 years alone, we have lost 30 percent of all our urban trees, a loss of over 600 million trees. Some of it has been lost to devastating natural disasters. For example, in my travels to New Orleans, as the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, huge numbers of trees, maybe thousands, were seen either strewn around or laying upon piles of debris. 
   Eighty percent of the American population lives in dense quarters of a city. Reforestation programs return a tool of nature to a concrete area that can help remove air pollution, filter out chemicals and agricultural waste in water and save communities millions of dollars in storm water management costs. I have certainly seen neighborhoods in Houston benefit from urban reforestation, as it would across the Nation. 
   In addition, havens of green in the middle of a city can have a beneficial effect on a community's health, both physical and psychological, as well as increase property values of the surrounding real estate. 
   Reforestation of cities is an innovative way of combating urban sprawl and/or deterioration. In this age of climate change and global warming, a real commitment to enhancing our environment involves both the protection of existing natural resources and active support for restoration improvement projects. 
   In 1999, American Forests, a conservation group, estimated that the tree cover lost in the greater Washington metropolitan area from 1973 to 1997 resulted in additional 540 million cubic feet of storm water runoff annually, which would have taken more than $1 billion in storm water control facilities to manage. 
   For those of us who live in areas 50 feet below sea level, as I do, in the gulf region, we know how important it is for trees to be amongst us. 
   This amendment is very simple. It is an encouragement based upon existing legislation that indicates that trees are important to clean air, it is important to prevent extreme flooding, storm water runoff, and certainly, it is a cooling factor in these days when temperatures are rising enormously high. 
   I would hope my colleagues would be sensitive to the bipartisan commitment to reforestation and move this amendment forward so that we as a Nation can stand on the record for the greening of America, treeing of America, all over, no matter what region you're in. 
   Thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of my amendment to H.R. 2643, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act of 2008, and to commend Chairman Dicks and Ranking Member Tiahrt for their leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. Among other agencies, this legislation funds the U.S. Forest Service, the National Park System, and the Smithsonian Institution, which operates our national museums including the National Zoo. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple but it sends a very important message from the Congress of the United States. My amendment emphasizes the importance of urban forests, and preserves our ability to return urban areas to healthy and safe living environments for our children. An identical amendment was offered to last year's appropriations bill, H.R. 5386, and was adopted by voice vote. 
   Mr. Chairman, surveys indicate that some urban forests are in serious danger. In the past 30 years alone, we have lost 30 percent of all our urban trees--a loss of over 600 million trees. 
   Eighty percent of the American population lives in the dense quarters of a city. Reforestation programs return a tool of nature to a concrete area that can help to remove air pollution, filter out chemicals and agricultural waste in water, and save communities millions of dollars in storm water management costs. I have certainly seen neighborhoods in Houston benefit from urban reforestation. 
   In addition, havens of green in the middle of a city can have beneficial effects on a community's health, both physical and psychological, as well as increase property value of surrounding real estate. 
   Reforestation of cities is an innovative way of combating urban sprawl and/or deterioration. In this age of climate change and global warming, a real commitment to enhancing our environment involves both the protection of existing natural resources and active support for restoration and improvement projects. 
   In 1999, American Forests, a conservation group, estimated that the tree cover lost in the greater Washington metropolitan area from 1973 to 1997 resulted in an additional 540 million cubic feet of storm water runoff annually, which would have taken more than $1 billion in storm water control facilities to manage. 
   Trees breathe in carbon dioxide, and produce oxygen. People breathe in oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide. A typical person consumes about 38 lbs of oxygen per year. A healthy tree, say a 32-ft tall ash tree, can produce about 260 lbs of oxygen annually--two trees supply the oxygen needs of a person for a year! 
   Trees help reduce pollution by capturing particulates like dust and pollen with their leaves. A mature tree absorbs from 120 to 240 lbs of the small particles and gases of air pollution. They help combat the effects of ``greenhouse'' gases, the increased carbon dioxide produced from burning fossil fuels that is causing our atmosphere to ``heat up.'' 
   Trees help cool down the overall city environment by shading asphalt, concrete and metal surfaces. Buildings and paving in city centers create a heat-island effect. A mature tree canopy reduces air temperatures by about 5-10 degrees Fahrenheit. A 25-foot tree reduces annual heating and cooling costs of a typical residence by 8 to 12 percent, producing an average $10 savings per American household. Proper tree plantings around buildings can slow winter winds, and reduce annual energy use for home heating by 4-22 percent. 
   Mr. Chairman, trees play a vital role in making our cities more sustainable and more liveable. My amendment simply provides for continued support to programs that reforest our urban areas. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment and thank Chairman Dicks and Ranking Member Tiahrt for their courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in putting together this excellent legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me again offer my appreciation to the chairman of the subcommittee and the ranking member of the subcommittee for the courtesies of both of their staff. 
   This amendment was offered last year. It is a continued commitment I have to the Smithsonian and the value of its programs and outreaching across America. 
   My amendment is simple, and it simply has the Congress on record to encourage and not limit outreach programs administered by the Smithsonian Institution, as I indicated, an identical amendment that was offered last year. 
   What are these outreach programs? These outreach programs involve reaching out to communities, African American communities, Asian American communities, Latino communities, Native American communities, and yes, New Americana. It is a program dealing with Kindergarten through college age museum education outreach opportunities. It enhances the K-12 science education programs and facilitates the Smithsonian's scholarly interactions with students and scholars at universities. Some would say that it brings the scholars of America out of the attics of America. 
   In addition, it has a program called the Mobile Museum, an exhibit that can visit up to three venues per week in the course of only 1 year, at no cost to the host institution or community. The net result is an increase by 150 the number of outreach locations to which SITES shows can travel annually. And in addition, through its flexibility in making short-term stops in cities and towns from coast to coast, a mobile museum has the advantage of being able to frequent the very locations where people live and work. 
   I believe America is a great country. We have a very rich history, and that history sometimes is lost because of the lack of technical assistance and education of our community. For example, may I share with my colleagues, the community in Houston called Freedmen's Town? It is a community that was settled by freed slaves. It now has a few remaining structures after urban revitalization. Part of the complexity of it is a lack of education, understanding of the value. Artifacts, museums, preservation, all of that is part of the work of the Smithsonian outreach that educates the community about the precious jewels that they have. Cobblestone streets that were laid by slaves, churches that were built by slaves, and a variety of other facilities, like an old school that was attended by freed slaves. 
   The Smithsonian's outreach program educates us about our history, provides mobile museums, connects America, connects us to this fabulous and extensive museum's holdings of the Nation's history by visual scenes. And so I would ask my colleagues to consider the importance of reaffirming, if you will, the value of the outreach program of the Smithsonian.  
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of my amendment to H.R. 2643 the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act of 2008 and to commend Chairman Dicks and Ranking Member Tiahrt for their leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. Among other agencies, this legislation funds the Smithsonian Institution, which operates our national museums, including the Air and Space Museum; the Museum of African Art; the Museum of the American Indian; and the National Portrait Gallery. The Smithsonian also operates another national treasure: the National Zoo. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple but it sends a very important message from the Congress of the United States. My amendment provides that none of the funds made available in this act be used to limit outreach programs administered by the Smithsonian Institution. An identical amendment was offered to last year's appropriations bill, H.R. 5386, and was adopted by voice vote. 
   Mr. Chairman, the Smithsonian's outreach programs bring Smithsonian scholars in art, history, and science out of ``the nation's attic'' and into their own backyard. Each year, millions of Americans visit the Smithsonian in Washington, DC. But in order to fulfill the Smithsonian's mission, ``the increase and diffusion of knowledge,'' the Smithsonian seeks to serve an even greater audience by bringing the Smithsonian to enclaves of communities who otherwise would be deprived of the vast amount of cultural history offered by the Smithsonian. 
   The Smithsonian's outreach programs serve millions of Americans, thousands of communities, and hundreds of institutions in all 50 States, through loans of objects, traveling exhibitions, and sharing of educational resources via publications, lectures and presentations, training programs, and websites. Smithsonian outreach programs work in close cooperation with Smithsonian museums and research centers, as well as with 144 affiliate institutions and others across the Nation. 
   The Smithsonian's outreach activities support community-based cultural and educational organizations around the country; ensure a vital, recurring, and high-impact Smithsonian presence in all 50 States through the provision of traveling exhibitions and a network of affiliations; increase connections between the Institution and targeted audiences (African American, Asian American, Latino, and native American, and all of America); provide kindergarten through college-aged museum education and outreach opportunities; enhance K-12 science education programs; facilitate the Smithsonian's scholarly interactions with students and scholars at universities, museums, and other research institutions; and publish and disseminate results related to the research and collections strengths of the Institution. 
   The programs that provide the critical mass of Smithsonian outreach activity are: the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES), the Smithsonian Affiliations, the Smithsonian Center for Education and Museum Studies (SCEMS), National Science Resources Center (NSRC), the Smithsonian Institution Press (SIP), the Office of Fellowships (OF) and the Smithsonian Associates (TSA), which receives no federal funding. 
   To achieve the goal of increasing public engagement, SITES directs some of its federal resources to develop Smithsonian Across America: A Celebration of National Pride. This ``mobile museum,'' which will feature Smithsonian artifacts from the most iconic (Presidential portraits, historic American flags, Civil War records, astronaut uniforms, etc.) to the simplest items of everyday life (family quilts, prairie schoolhouse furnishings, historic lunch boxes, multilingual store front and street signs, etc.), has been a long-standing organizational priority of the Smithsonian. 
   SITES ``mobile museum'' is the only traveling exhibit format able to guarantee audience growth and expanded geographic distribution during sustained periods of economic retrenchment, but also because it is imperative for the many exhibitors nationwide who are struggling financially yet eager to participate in Smithsonian outreach. As economic downturn and uncertainty continue to erode the ability of museums to present temporary exhibitions, the ``mobile museum'' promises to answer an ever-growing demand for Smithsonian shows in the field. A single, conventional SITES exhibit can reach a maximum of 12 locations over a 2- to 3-year period. 
   In contrast, a ``mobile museum'' exhibit can visit up to three venues per week in the course of only 1 year, at no cost to the host institution or community. The net result is an increase by 150 in the number of outreach locations to which SITES shows can travel annually. And in addition to its flexibility in making short-term stops in cities and towns from coast-to-coast, a ``mobile museum'' has the advantage of being able to frequent the very locations where people live, work, and take part in leisure time activities. By establishing an exhibit presence in settings like these, SITES will not only increase its annual visitor participation by 1 million, but also advance a key Smithsonian performance objective: to develop exhibit approaches that address diverse audiences, including population groups not always affiliated with mainstream cultural institutions. 
   SITES also will be the public exhibitions' face of the Smithsonian's National Museum of Mrican American History and Culture, as the planning for that new Museum gets under way. Providing national access to projects that will introduce the American public to the Museum's mission, SITES in FY 2008 will tour such stirring exhibitions as NASA ART: 50 Years of Exploration; 381 Days: The Montgomery Bus Boycott Story; Beyond: Visions of Planetary Landscapes; The Way We Worked: Photographs from the National Archives; and More Than Words: Illustrated Letters from the Smithsonian's Archives of American Art. 
   To meet the growing demand among smaller community and ethnic museums for an exhibition celebrating the Latino experience, SITES will issue a scaled-down version of the National Museum of American History's 4,000-square-foot exhibition about legendary entertainer Celia Cruz. Two 1,500-square-foot exhibitions, one about Crow Indian history and the other on basket traditions, will give Smithsonian visitors beyond Washington a taste of the Institution's critically acclaimed National Museum of the American Indian. Two more exhibits, In Plane View and Earth from Space, will provide 
   visitors in the field with a taste of the Smithsonian's recently opened, expansive National Air and Space Museum Udvar-Hazy Center.  
   Several exhibit tours will be extended by popular demand. The most important of them are The American Presidency and Our Journeys, Our Stories, the original itineraries of which could not accommodate multiple exhibitor requests. 
   For almost 30 years, The Smithsonian Associates--the highly regarded educational arm of the Smithsonian Institution--has arranged Scholars in the Schools programs. Through this tremendously successful and well-received educational outreach program, the Smithsonian shares its staff--hundreds of experts in art, history and science--with the national community at a local level. 
   The mission of Smithsonian Affiliations is to build a strong national network of museums and educational organizations in order to establish active and engaging relationships with communities throughout the country. There are currently 138 affiliates located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Panama. By working with museums of diverse subject areas and scholarly disciplines, both emerging and well-established, Smithsonian Affiliations is building partnerships through which audiences and visitors everywhere will be able to share in the great wealth of the Smithsonian while building capacity and expertise in local communities. 
   The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) will strive to increase the number of ethnically diverse students participating in effective science programs based on NSRC products and services. The Center will develop and implement a national outreach strategy that will increase the number of school districts (currently more than 800) that are implementing NSRC K-8 programs. The NSRC is striving to further enhance its program activity with a newly developed scientific outreach program introducing communities and school districts to science through literacy initiatives. Some of NSRC's goals are: 
   Double the number of school districts implementing NSRC K-8 programs, growing from an estimated 15 percent of the school population to 30 percent 
   Significantly expand national outreach programs to ethnically and culturally diverse school districts through the work of the NSRC's three centers of excellence 
   Engage 125 school districts--representing an additional 5 percent of the United States K-8 student population--bringing the impact of the NSRC's work from 20 percent to 25 percent of the nation's youth 
   Continue to develop and bring first-class educational resources to the nation by forging partnerships with school systems, educators, education and museum professional associations, and others to expand opportunities for development and dissemination of Smithsonian-based education resources 
   Through a collaborative effort with other Smithsonian education units, expand the educational opportunities available throughout the country, particularly in the area of science education reform 
   Expand the number of science materials currently available to school districts for grades K-3 and continue pursuing newly-published children's books, which will enhance science education programs throughout the country 
   Continue to develop and bring first-class educational resources to the nation by forging partnerships with school systems, educators, education and museum professional associations and others to expand opportunities for development and dissemination of Smithsonian-based education resources. 
   In addition, through the building of the multicultural Alliance Initiative, the Smithsonian's outreach programs seek to develop new approaches to enable the public to gain access to Smithsonian collections, research, education, and public programs that reflect the diversity of the American people, including underserved audiences of ethnic populations and persons with disabilities. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment and thank Chairman Dicks and Ranking Member Tiahrt for their courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in putting together this excellent legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I conclude by thanking both the chairman and the ranking member, and I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REMEMBERING WILFRED G. GOODEN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Wilfred G. Gooden, who passed in January of this year. Wilfred G. Gooden was a philanthropist, and certainly someone who loved his country, but loved service. 
   Born in Jamaica, West Indies in the Westmoreland area, he was a naturalized citizen. He came to New York City. In his commitment to serving the community, he became a master builder and opened a construction company in 1961 where he created jobs for young men and women in the Harlem area. He was a master artisan, a carpenter, a perfectionist in his work. 
   As he became an astute businessperson, he also was concerned about affordable housing for many in the New York area. Mayor David Dinkins appointed him to have the opportunity to devise a housing program for the City of Houston. But yet he continued to do more, and he was a great philanthropist, providing clothing and opportunity for the people of Jamaica. We pay great tribute to Wilfred Gooden, and we mourn his loss. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MOTION TO ADJOURN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. For 12 years, Mr. Speaker, I have engaged in an energy brain trust that would hopefully engage the industry but help to reform the industry. And so I say to my colleagues, today we are making that first step, not ignoring the industry, but opening our doors to engagement and discussion so that we can truly have a reformed energy industry that focuses on energy independence and security for the American people. 
   Now, we realize in 1998 and 1999 the price per barrel for oil was very low. And the administration, at that time, reasonably addressed the question of royalty relief. Today we have a different economic structure, and the price per barrel is $50-plus and up. 
   And so what is this Congress and this leadership doing? It is doing the right thing. It is making a determination that we can now place some $14 billion in trust to support clean alternative energy and, of course, renewables, renewables and alternative energy that have been proposed by Members on both sides of the aisle. 
   I look forward to an engagement of the energy industry so that it can diversify its own portfolio. It is necessary for our independence from foreign oil, and it is necessary for our homeland security. 
   But what we do not do in this bill is important. For example, we do not repeal refinery expansion expensing. We don't repeal the intangible drilling cost deduction, nor do we impose a windfall profits tax. 
   We are balanced. We are respectful of this process of engagement, and we don't repeal the natural gas line depreciation or the foreign tax credit. 
   And so we understand that the industry, one, has to work to ensure that it is productive and that it moves away from total dependence on foreign oil to give relief to the American people as they proceed to develop greater energy independence and conservation. 
   This is a good bill that focuses, in a balanced way, to begin the march toward energy reformation and opens the door towards new ideas for the energy industry that will allow energy independence and security for America.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6, which will create long-term energy alternatives for the Nation. The Creating Long-Term Energy Alternatives for the Nation, CLEAN, Act of 2007, includes two components that will roll back the unnecessary tax  benefits and costly federal oil and gas leasing provisions included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The legislation would also help to correct the mistakes of the leases issued by the Interior Department between 1998 and 1999--which, if left unchanged, could cost the Federal Treasury an estimated $60 billion over the next 25 years. 
   The CLEAN Act calls for investing in clean, renewable energy by repealing $14 billion in subsidies given to Big Oil companies by requiring these companies which were awarded 1998 and 1999 leases for drilling without price thresholds to pay royalties or pay a fee. H.R. 6 also eliminates unnecessary tax deductions which exist in the tax code and in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. In the first ten years, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that these fees will generate $6 billion in revenue and the Joint Commission on Taxation estimates that the elimination of these deductions will result in $7.6 billion in revenue. 
   The CLEAN Act also creates a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve which would promote energy efficiency by investing in clean, renewable energy and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency, and improve energy conservation. We cannot justifiably continue to allow big oil companies to reap astronomical financial benefits while the citizens of this country continue to struggle to pay their living expenses due to the outrageous cost of oil and gas. 
   These high costs derive primarily from our overwhelming dependence on foreign oil. The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. Moreover, the world's greatest petroleum reserves reside in regions of high geopolitical risk, including 57 percent of which are in the Persian Gulf. 
   Mr. Speaker, we cannot even remotely begin to reduce the high price of oil and gas which has caused many of our citizens to change their standards of living, unless and until we find ways to create a more self-sufficient energy environment within the United States. Investing in clean, renewable energy is an important first step to achieving this goal. For example, an innovative solution to our national energy crisis is in the 21st Century Energy Independence Act, which I introduced in the 110th Congress. This legislation alleviates our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels by utilizing loan guarantees to promote the development of traditional and cellulosic ethanol technology. Investing in domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, but it can also end our addiction to foreign oil. 
   According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our Nation's petroleum consumption. In addition to ensuring access to more abundant sources of energy, replacing petroleum use with ethanol will help reduce U.S. carbon emissions, which are otherwise expected to increase by 80 percent by 2025. Cellulosic ethanol can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 87 percent. Thus, transitioning from foreign oil to ethanol will protect our environment from dangerous carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. Cellulosic ethanol technology requires initial governmental 
   investment and policy support to achieve the necessary scale to become self-sufficient and gain market-penetrating capacity. That is why I introduced the 21st Century Energy Independence Act since it ensures that America achieves energy independence and improves our environment. 
   In addition to being from the energy capital of the world, for the past twelve years I have been the Co-Chair of the Energy Taskforce of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of energy braintrusts, panels, conferences, and symposia designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. Bringing together thoughtful yet disparate voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a Nation achieve energy security and energy independence. 
   The CLEAN Act strikes energy bill provisions suspending royalty fees from oil and gas companies operating in certain deep waters of Gulf of Mexico. The bill also repeals royalty relief for deep gas wells leased in shallow waters of the western and central areas of the Gulf. It includes a provision from the President's FY 2007 budget restoring drilling permit application cost recovery fees; fees which the 2005 Energy bill prohibited. The measure also strikes royalty relief for specific offshore drilling in Alaska, and special treatment for leases in the National Petroleum Reserve--Alaska (NPR-A). 
   H.R. 6 requires companies, which unfortunately have been able to escape paying royalties as a result of the 1998 and 1999 leases, to pay their fair share in order to be eligible for new federal leases for drilling. Specifically, the measure requires current offshore fuel producers who are not paying federal royalties to either: (1) Agree to pay royalties when fuel prices reach certain thresholds, $34.73 per barrel for oil and $4.34 per million Btu for natural gas, or (2) to pay new fees established in the bill--in order to be eligible for new federal leases for drilling. Under the bill, a new conservation of resource fee would be based on the amount of oil produced and will apply to new and existing leases and shall be set at $9 per barrel for oil and $1.25 per million Btu for gas. 
   The changes regarding royalties offered under H.R. 6 are not entirely new. Similar royalty relief provisions have been debated and passed by the House as part of the OCS drilling bill, H.R. 4761, and in the Interior Appropriation bill with bipartisan support of 67 Republicans. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 6 would also close gaping loopholes and end gigantic giveaways for Big Oil in the tax code and in the 2005 Energy bill. The bill would eliminate a loophole written into the international tax bill, H.R. 4520, which allowed oil companies to qualify for a tax provision intended to encourage domestic manufacturing. According to the New York Times, this loophole provided ConocoPhillips $106 million in 2005, even though its profits totaled $13.5 billion. 
   The benefits which ConocoPhillips reaped from the tax loophole, represents just a snapshot of the lopsided picture that overwhelmingly favors the financial well-being of big oil companies over average American families. While big oil companies continue to rake in millions and millions of dollars, American families see their budgets shrinking because of high costs of oil and gas. It is our responsibility to refocus our legislative lenses on solving this Nation's energy dependence problem so that we may rescue American families from the recent oil and gas price hikes. 
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. That is why it is crucial that while seeking solutions to secure more energy independence within this country, we must strike a balance that will still support an environment for continued growth in the oil and gas industry, which I might add, creates millions of jobs across the entire country. We have many more miles to go before we achieve energy independence. Consequently, I am willing, able, 
   and eager to continue working with Houston's and our Nation's energy industry to ensure that we are moving expeditiously on the path to crafting an environmentally sound and economically viable energy policy. Furthermore, I think it is imperative that we involve small, minority and women owned, and independent energy companies in this process because they represent some of the hard working Americans and Houstonians who are on the forefront of energy efficient strategies to achieving energy independence. 
   H.R. 6 is a vehicle by which we can drive this country in the direction of energy independence. Under this bill, we can invest in clean, renewable energy resources through the creation of the Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve which would: Accelerate the use of clean domestic renewable energy resources and alternative fuels; promote the utilization of energy-efficient products, practices and conservation; and increase research, development, and deployment of clean renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. 
   It is critical that some of the additional funding created by this bill is invested in small, minority and women owned business and minority serving institutions. By investing in minority owned business and minority serving institutions, we are ensuring that sectors of our Nation and economy which are often overlooked are given an opportunity to compete against much larger businesses and institutions of higher learning. 
   Madam Speaker, the changes we propose to the CLEAN Act will allow us to move this country in the right direction--the direction of becoming less dependent on foreign oil and in turn, more reliant on renewable energy. Because of these changes, we anticipate a win-win situation. These changes should stimulate the expansion of research into renewable energy because such changes positively impact oil companies that choose to reinvest in new and emerging technology. Thus, H.R. 6 offers great incentives for oil companies to contribute greatly to our efforts to create an energy-independent America. 
   Moreover, the provisions that oil companies care about the most are preserved under the CLEAN Act. In part due to the concerted effort of the Houston/Harris County delegation, this bill WILL NOT include the following provisions: (1) Repeal of last-in-first-out (LIFO) accounting; (2) Refinery expansion expensing repeal; (3) Imposition of a windfall profits tax; (4) Repeal of intangible drilling costs deduction; (5)  Repeal of natural gas distribution lines depreciation; and (6) Foreign tax credit repeal. 
   For all of the foregoing reasons, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6 to create long-term energy alternatives and to create a more energy-independent and secure America.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING CARIBBEAN DRUG CRIME -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 865, ``Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the March 2007 report of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development makes an important contribution to the understanding of the high levels of crime and violence in the Caribbean, and that the United States should work with Caribbean countries to address crime and violence in the region,'' introduced by my friend and colleague Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have traveled in the Caribbean recently, and I, together with many of my colleagues on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, had the opportunity to meet with CARICOM leaders last year. I believe that it is extremely beneficial to all our nations, and to the international community, that we continue this trend of increasing engagement and interaction. Equally important is that we ensure that, in our process of engagement, that we are truly listening and responding to the concerns presented by government and civil society leaders of the Caribbean nations, as well as addressing our own social, economic, and security goals. 
   Crime and violence in the Caribbean region is undoubtedly one area in which our concerns are in line with local needs. Most observers have indicated that the level of crime and violence throughout the Caribbean basin has increased over the past decade, a trend confirmed by a joint report issued by the United Nations and the World Bank last year. This report, titled ``Crime, Violence, and Development: Trends, Costs, and Policy Options in the Caribbean,'' found that crime and violence have increased throughout the Caribbean to such an alarming extent that the region, as a whole, now has the highest overall crime rate of any region in the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is dangerous to characterize an entire region, as each nation is different; however, there are some general statistics regarding the Caribbean Community that cannot be ignored. While some countries have been relatively successful at maintaining low levels of crime, as a whole, the Caribbean has murder rates four times higher than those of the United States. Regional rape rates are above the global average, and three 
   countries in the region are among the 10 countries globally with the highest rate of rape. 
   In addition to violent crime, trafficking of drugs remains a significant problem in the region, and one that has a serious impact on our own country as well. In 2005 alone, for example, 30 tons of cocaine transited through Jamaica, Haiti, and the Dominican Republic. According to the White House's Office of National Drug Policy, the Caribbean Corridor accounted for approximately 8 percent of the total documented flow of cocaine departing South America in 2004. The region also plays a prominent role in drug-related money laundering. 
   Mr. Speaker, these facts combine to create a crisis with long-term developmental consequences. Trade, commerce, tourism, and social well-being are all threatened by these crimes, and the nations in the Caribbean region will not be the only ones to suffer. Declining stability in the Western Hemisphere will seriously impair U.S. efforts to fight organized crime and drug trade, while instability in the Caribbean region has historically impacted immigration patterns to the United States. The Caribbean Community is one of our most important allies in ensuring our borders are secure--regional instability means gaps in our border protection efforts. 
   The United States must work together with our Caribbean friends and allies, to develop effective partnerships in search of workable solutions. If the Caribbean is destabilized, all of our nations will suffer the consequences. We have an opportunity to address this problem before it destabilizes much of the hemisphere and jeopardizes U.S. security. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 865 to express the sense of the House that the U.S. and its CARICOM allies take up the U.N./World Bank report's recommendations and work together to solve this potentially devastating problem before it is too late. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILLIAM ``BILL'' CLAY POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5395, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 11001 Dunklin Drive in St. Louis, Missouri, as the ``William `Bill' Clay Post Office Building.'' I would like to thank my colleague Congressman Carnahan for introducing this bill, and Chairman Waxman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee for bringing this important legislation to the floor today. 
   As my colleagues are aware, William `Bill' Clay served in the House of Representatives for 32 years, until his retirement in 2000. He was a true leader, a champion of civil rights, and a tireless voice for the people of Missouri's 1st Congressional District. 
   Mr. Speaker, Mr. Clay was born in 1931 in St. Louis, Missouri and he graduated from St. Louis University. He began his political career in 1959, serving as a member of the St. Louis Board of Aldermen until 1964. He also worked as a real estate broker, and served his community as a labor coordinator. From 1961-1964, he worked for the union of St. Louis city employees, and later with a steamfitters union until 1967. 
   Mr. Speaker, Mr. Clay was also a true champion of civil rights. He was one of the founders of the Congressional Black Caucus, and, throughout his time in Congress, he championed social justice and labor issues. He worked tirelessly on behalf of the poor and disenfranchised, always seeking to give them a voice in these halls. He was instrumental in fighting racial discrimination whenever and wherever it occurred. Congressman Clay authored the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Capital Financing Act, which provides $375 million in federal loan guarantees for construction and renovation projects at Historically Black Colleges and Universities. 
   Because of his commitment to labor he selected committees whose primary business  deals with labor issues, and he served as a senior Member of the Education and the Workforce Committee. Congressman Clay was a champion of education and played a key role in the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, including efforts to reduce early grade class sizes by hiring 100,000 teachers nationwide. He has also leading the way for our Nation's schools to be first in getting the resources necessary for school construction, renovation and modernization. His work in education has also included winning concessions from the Republicans to increase the amount of Pell Grant funding and the reduction of student loan interest rates. 
   From 1991 until 1995, Congressman Clay chaired the House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service. Upon his retirement in 2000, he was succeeded by his son, my colleague, Congressman William Lacy Clay. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation will honor a true champion of civil rights in a very fitting way. It is fitting that a former Chairman of the House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service be honored with a post office in the very town where his political career begun. 
   I am very proud to support this legislation, and I ask my colleagues to join me in voting honoring William ``Bill'' Clay and voting for H.R. 5395. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JULIA M. CARSON POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5472, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2650 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street, Indianapolis, IN, as the ``Julia M. Carson Post Office Building,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Indiana, Representative PETER VISCLOSKY. Through this important resolution, the House of Representatives will give final tribute to our colleague, sister, mentor and friend. 
   As a member of this House, I have been privileged to work with some extraordinary men and women. Julia Carson was an extraordinary woman and an extraordinary champion of justice and equality. Julia Carson was a powerful force for change in this country and was an articulate champion for the poor, homeless and those who suffered from discrimination and racial injustice. 
   As the first woman and first African-American elected to represent Indianapolis in Congress, Julia truly represented and will be remembered as an American hero. Julia was so keenly committed to those who could not speak for themselves and could not help themselves. A longtime legislator in the Indiana State Legislature and advocate for her community, Julia's history, by its very nature, directed her to the fight for those who, like herself, grew up with very little, but yet could look to this great country and actually believe that they could achieve their dreams. 
   Julia Carson who grew up poor and lived through segregation was elected in 1996 to the U.S. House of Representatives. Among many, one of her biggest achievements came in 1999 when she successfully pushed through legislation granting the Congressional Gold Medal to Rosa Parks, the mother of the civil rights movement. 
   Congresswoman Julia Carson lived her life to the fullest extent. She left few stones unturned. Her passion for family and community was unparallel. Though she was only a member of this body for 11 years, her life and legacy will last an eternity. 
   Representative Carson was a true advocate for and of the people. For over 35 years she worked tirelessly for her community and she was the greatest example of humility, self-determination, fortitude, strength and resilience. She will always be remembered for her advocacy of the most disadvantaged and she will truly be missed. 
   It is because of the legacy of Congresswoman Julia Carson that I rise today in support of the naming the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2650 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street, Indianapolis, IN, as the ``Julia M. Carson Post Office Building''. Though Julia is no longer with us, we can still honor her. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must never forget the life and legacy of a woman who touched the hearts and minds of so many. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker I rise today to support H. Res. 1038, ``Recognizing the 5th Anniversary of the Department of Homeland Security and honoring the Department's Employees for their Extraordinary Efforts to Protect and Secure our Nation. 
   On September 11, 2001 this nation suffered a terrorist attack that surpassed anything we had dealt with before. After witnessing those events, I decided that the protection of our homeland would be at the forefront of my legislative agenda. I knew that all of our collective efforts as Americans would all be in vain if we did not achieve our most important priority: the security of our Nation. 
   After the events of September 11th, the Department of Homeland Security was created in an effort to consolidate our Nation's efforts to prevent, respond to, and mitigate threats to the homeland, including acts of terrorism, natural disasters, or other emergencies. 
   Since its first full scale year in 2003, the Department of Homeland Security has integrated 22 disparate agencies and offices. Due to the Homeland Security's employees' diligence, the department has done a magnificent job of deterring, detecting, and preventing acts of terrorism from occurring on U.S. soil. 
   Over 331 pieces of legislation related to Homeland Security have been introduced since the Department's inception. From the health-related issues surrounding clean up of Ground Zero to Customs and Border Protection, the Department covers several facets affecting our national security. 
   Working for the Department of Homeland Security is more than a job. It would be like saying that we as Members of Congress simply have a job. Homeland Security is a belief in the greatness of this nation and the desire to protect it no matter where the enemy comes from, no matter how large or small the attack. 
   I thank the employees for the work they do and their belief in the need for protecting our Nation's borders, airports, seaports, rail lines, transit systems, and most importantly our way of life. 
   That is why I have introduced legislation such as H.R. 750 [110th] the Save America Comprehensive Immigration Act of 2007, which seeks to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to provide increased protections and eligibility for family-sponsored immigrants. It would authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to deny a family-based immigration petition by a U.S. petitioner for an alien spouse or child if: (1) the petitioner is on  the national sex offender registry for a conviction that resulted in more than one year's imprisonment; (2) the petitioner has failed to rebut such information within 90 days; and (3) granting the petition would put a spouse or child beneficiary in danger of sexual abuse. Among other things it would direct the Secretary to establish the Task Force to Rescue Immigrant Victims of American Sex Offenders. 
   I also introduced H.R. 1530, the Chemical Facility Security Improvement Act of 2007 to prohibit federal funds from being used by the Secretary of Homeland Security to approve a site security plan for a chemical facility unless the facility meets or exceeds security standards and requirements to protect it against terrorist acts established by the State or local government for the area where it is located. 
   Because while I support and commend the Department of Homeland Security, I still believe that the Department's mission and goals are still malleable. We need to continue to improve the Department's comprehensive national strategies to ensure that the more than 87,000 different governmental jurisdictions at the Federal, State, and local level are protecting our nation's borders, transit systems, people, and ideals. 
   This work could not be done however, without the more than 208,000 employees of the Department working to ensure disaster preparedness at all levels of government while sacrificing their invaluable time with their family and working long hours to stand willing, able, and ready to respond if catastrophe strikes. 
   The Department of Homeland Security is critical in ensuring our great nation's preparation for future terrorist threats and attacks. Its employees step beyond the ordinary call of duty and tirelessly help to prepare our Nation to counter acts of terrorism, natural disasters, and other emergencies. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the achievements of the Department of Homeland Security, and support this resolution honoring the 5th anniversary of the Department of Homeland Security and its extraordinary employees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE EMPLOYEES OF THE HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is an interesting day. Earlier today on the floor of the House, we rose to pay tribute to the 5-year anniversary of the Department of Homeland Security and to express our appreciation for the employees for their extraordinary efforts and contributions to protect and secure our Nation. Security protection is not perfect. 
   And there have been challenges and, if you will, mountains to climb in preparing this Nation for its own security. Having been on the early established Homeland Security Committee and having gone to Ground Zero as the smoke was simmering, I know full well the value and purpose of all of these front-line employees. 
   I offer them today my greatest appreciation and would say to all of them, I would wish that all of our jobs relating to security would be extinguished, but we know that it cannot, and our task is to protect Americans. For that, we must be diligent and transparent. We must value civil liberties, but as well, we must be sure on security. 
   Mr. Speaker, I truly believe that when we bring our troops home, we will have a civilian Homeland Security Department that can truly help secure America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING CONCERN AND SUPPORT FOR TROOPS IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me express my deep concern for the three soldiers who are now missing in Iraq and applaud their brothers-in-arms for never giving up on their search, for we as Americans will never leave our comrades, our brothers and sisters, in battle or never leave them on the battlefield. That is why this Congress, with the leadership of Nancy Pelosi, believes that we can craft a resolution and a solution, and that is that we begin to redeploy our troops and focus on the Iraqi Government, to have them stand up and to have them ensure the safety of the Iraqi people and also Americans to ensure the safety of their soldiers. 
   Our soldiers have been successful on the battlefield. They can claim victory. It is time now for the President, the White House, the leadership to get together and to be able to solve these untenable problems. 
   Why are we allowing our young people to be on the battlefield without the support, the full support, of a reasoned White House? Let us work together. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SYMPATHY TO THE VICTIMS OF CYCLONE SIDR IN SOUTHERN BANGLADESH -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 842, expressing sympathy to and pledging the support of the House of Representatives and the people of the United States for the victims of Cyclone Sidr in southern Bangladesh, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New Jersey, Representative Rothman. This important resolution reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the people of Bangladesh in the wake of the devastation of Cyclone Sidr. 
   Mr. Speaker, Bangladesh has long been a valued ally of the United States; and a key Muslim democracy in a region where adherence to democratic principles is at a premium. Recently, I met with Mr. Don Haque, nephew of former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia. After listening to his concerns and insights, it is my hope that Bangladesh will move swiftly toward regaining its status as a thriving, emerging democracy and set an example for its neighbors and the rest of the world. 
   The region has been undergoing serious political and economic changes, with several nations undergoing significant political upheaval. Key among these is Bangladesh, where emergency rule was declared by President Iajuddin Ahmed following opposition protests during the run-up to the January 2007 elections. This military-backed caretaker government, currently headed by Fakhruddin Ahmed, is expected to continue to 
   hold power through 2008, though some observers have estimated that elections will not actually take place until 2009 or later. 
   It is my sincere hope that the military-backed caretaker government currently in power in Bangladesh will promptly lift the state of emergency and move expeditiously toward holding free and fair elections. It would also be my expectation that the caretaker government will abide by internationally recognized standards of human rights and due process in its activities. I am personally concerned by reported events in Bangladesh, including the ban on political and union activity; the restrictions on free movement, free assembly, free association, free speech and a free press; and the denial of bail and other due process rights to more than 200,000 jailed individuals, according to some accounts. 
   In this key period of political change, one that will hopefully ensure a more free and fair democratic Bangladesh, the nation has been hit by an unthinkable natural disaster that has affected all ways of life. On November 15, the southern coast of Bangladesh was struck by Cyclone Sidr with raging winds of 155 miles-per-hour smashing tens of thousands of homes, damaging roads and buildings, and causing a 16 foot tidal surge that has destroyed thousands of hectares of crops. 
   This natural disaster is estimated to have affected over 4 million people thus far, with millions being evacuated from their homes due to loss or damage. The Bangladesh Disaster Ministry now estimates that some 750,000 homes were damaged or destroyed in the aftermath of Cyclone Sidr. As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am especially concerned by the internal displacement of millions of Bangladeshis, over 400,000 of whom are children below the age of five. The catastrophic death toll has already reached 3,500, though the Bangladesh Red Crescent has warned that the number of deaths may climb as high as 10,000 in what is being called the greatest destruction from a cyclone in Bangladesh in 16 years. 
   It appears we are only just beginning to see the effects of this great human catastrophe. While Cyclone Sidr is responsible for widespread destruction, the five provinces of Patuakhali, Barguna, Bagerhat, Barisal, and Pirojpur that sit on the southern coast of Bangladesh were the most drastically affected. The nation's capital, Dhaka, which is located over 130 miles away from the country's devastated coastline, still lost access to power and food for days following the storm. Hundreds of thousands of people in southern Bangladesh's remote areas have been cut off from relief operations leading to massive suffering and starvation due to the current lack of access to drinking water and medicines. One relief worker in Bagerhat went so far as to say that the region looked like a ``valley of death.'' Unfortunately, the worst may be yet to come. Health officials have begun to warn against the serious threat posed by cholera, dysentery, and other waterborne diseases as a result of the limited access to water supplies and sanitation facilities that millions of Bangladeshis will face. 
   As a member of the international community, the United States must offer its support and assistance to a nation that has been devastated by such a tremendous natural disaster. The United Nations World Food Program has appealed to the international community to provide aid to the peoples of Bangladesh, noting that food supplies have been severely disrupted by the cyclone leading to an increased and very real threat of famine. This resolution is significant because it reaffirms the commitment of the United States to provide relief aid to the victims of Cyclone Sidr as its effects continue to unfold. Furthermore, this resolution calls upon the United States to immediately make available any and all appropriate assistance that has been requested by the Bangladeshi authorities. 
   I believe that it is imperative that the United States government express its heartfelt sympathy and support to the people of Bangladesh in the wake of this terrific disaster, which is why I am a proud cosponsor of this legislation. I urge my colleagues to join me in strongly supporting this legislation, and to call for still more to be done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1227, GULF COAST HURRICANE HOUSING RECOVERY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman Mr. Welch for his insightful leadership on this issue, and I thank the Financial Services Committee. 
   And I ask the question of my colleagues, how many of them have encountered Hurricane Katrina survivors, as I have every day in my congressional district, or been back to the scene of the crime, if you will, along the Mississippi gulf or the Louisiana gulf and asked the question, how long? 
   This legislation, which I believe the Rules Committee has been enormously fair in allowing amendments by both Republicans and Democrats, answers the immediacy of the concerns. One, being no housing. One of the amendments Mr. Green will be offering is raising the question of extending the benefits so that individuals who are trying to recoup themselves to get back home will have housing. How many have walked into apartments in Houston, Texas, and talked to Katrina survivors who held in their hand an eviction notice because their FEMA benefits were being cut off, while at the same time they were trying to access the Road Home Program, and they could not access those dollars? 
   So this is answering real questions for real Americans, and it answers the failures of this administration, which never seemed to get it together and concern themselves enough with breaking, if you will, the entanglement of bureaucracy to ensure that these individuals will receive benefits. 
   So one of the issues, Madam Speaker, as we both serve on the Homeland Security Committee, is to pre-prepare so we are in front of the natural disaster or man-made disaster. I look forward to legislation that establishes postdisaster housing, not trailers, so that individuals can be evacuated to real housing that is there in place to be able to be of help. 
   This legislation moves the ball further down the road. It is long overdue. It is a good rule. It is a rule that I have not seen in my time here in the Congress under the other majority; so I am grateful that we are moving forward as we are. 
   Let us vote for the rule. Let us vote for the underlying legislation. Let us help those who need our help, and let us help them now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GULF COAST HURRICANE HOUSING RECOVERY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1227, the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act of 2007. Among other things, this legislation includes provisions designed to speed up the repair and rebuilding of homes and affordable rental housing in areas affected by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma; ensures continued rental assistance for both families that have moved back to their home areas and for families displaced by such hurricanes, and provides reimbursements to communities and landlords that were generous in providing assistance to hurricane evacuees in the aftermath of the storms. 
   Mr. Chairman, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit landfall in 2005. In the immediate aftermath of the storms, Congress provided substantial sums through the Federal Emergency Management Administration, FEMA, to address emergency needs arising from the devastation that the storms created, and to provide a housing safety net for families who lost their homes or were otherwise displaced. Later in 2005 and in the summer of 2006, Congress approved two emergency spending bills providing more than $16 billion in CDBG funds for affected states, to provide assistance for home repairs and reconstruction and for repair and rebuilding of a depleted stock of affordable rental housing. Congress also appropriated $390 million for the Disaster Voucher Program, which provides voucher assistance to formerly HUD-assisted families that have been displaced by these hurricanes. 
   However, some 18 months after these storms, the pace of recovery of housing repair and reconstruction is not as robust in many areas as many had hoped. The pace of home repair, particularly in areas within Louisiana, has been slow. The repair or rebuilding of many damaged federally subsidized public and assisted housing units, affordable to lower income families, has still not taken place. And, tens of thousands of federally assisted evacuees from these hurricanes face impending deadlines later this year for continued eligibility for rental assistance. 
   The Financial Services Committee has held a number of hearings over the past year and a half, including two in September 2005, two in December 2005, two in January 2006, one in February 2006, and three in February 2007 to explore the pace of the housing recovery effort in the Gulf Coast. The hearings included representatives of Federal agencies, State and local government officials, housing developers, nonprofit organizations, and representatives of low income housing. Witnesses testified as to the current state of the housing recovery in various communities in the Gulf Coast and offered legislative suggestions for addressing housing problems in those areas. The bill ultimately reported out of the Financial Services Committees relies extensively on the hearing record and these suggestions. 
   FLEXIBILITY 
   H.R. 1227 includes a number of provisions designed to improve flexibility with respect to previously appropriated funds for hurricane recovery efforts on the Gulf Coast. The bill would free up for use $1.175 billion in funds  previously made available for use to the State of Louisiana under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, but which has been held up by FEMA. Louisiana has proposed combining these funds with CDBG funds under its Road Home program for grants to homeowners, but FEMA will not approve use of the funds because of Road Home provisions that provide incentives for homeowners to commit to returning to the state to live. Under the program, homeowners would receive a 40 percent reduction in any Road Home grant money if they leave the state. However, this provision excepts homeowners over the age of 65. The bill would transfer such funds to CDBG, to expedite the availability of such funds. 
   The bill eliminates an unduly restrictive ``duplication of benefits'' provision that has resulted in homeowners in Louisiana receiving less than the funds they need to rebuild under the Road Home Program, while instating a prohibition against any person receiving a ``windfall gain'' from assistance under that program. 
   The bill eliminates a provision from a previous CDBG appropriations bill that prohibits CDBG funds from being used as a match for other Federal programs, a change that could help cash strapped communities without a tax base that are unable to meet these other match requirements. 
   The bill provides that $15 million in CDBG funds made available to the State of Louisiana shall be transferred to the New Orleans Redevelopment Agency, for a pilot program to leverage private capital to assemble, redevelop and resell parcels of land in New Orleans. 
   Finally, the bill expedites the handling of loss claims for lenders in the case of FHA insured 1- to 4-unit properties where there are problems with the conveyance of title. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GULF COAST HURRICANE HOUSING RECOVERY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished gentleman from Texas. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me, first of all, thank the chairman of the full committee Mr. Frank, and the chairwoman of the subcommittee Ms. Waters, and then my colleague from Texas Mr. Green, who eloquently laid out for us the reason for this particular amendment. 
   Might I say, having not listened to all of his statement, I know that one of the elements of his offering of this amendment is firsthand personal experience, because I walked with him through the cots of the Reliance Center on a regular basis, over and over again. I was on the telephone as the buses started leaving the convention center and leaving the Superdome coming into Houston in the middle of the night. 
   We have seen the actual results of massive, long-term evacuation. It is well-known that FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security were not prepared for long-term evacuation. 
   This is an amendment that extends the deadline to December 31, 2007, for several reasons. First of all, might I say that it might have been the executive branch that extended it, but it really was the Director of FEMA being pounded upon, and I must say Director Paulison, the newer Director of FEMA, is very sensitive and concerned about this issue. He is putting his nose to the grindstone, along with, of course, the White House that has said to him you can do that. But each time these deadlines come, they are disruptive. 
   I went to a set of apartments, to my good friends on the other side of the aisle, in apartments where evacuees were holding eviction notices because they are coming up against each time a set of deadlines with nobody seeming to be able to respond. The reason why the thousands of people did not go out on the street is because the good citizens of Houston, Salt Lake City, Atlanta or Los Angeles, the nonprofits stood up to the case. In Houston today, we have people meeting every week, nonprofits, led by the United Way, trying to prepare for the inevitable, which is people out on the street. 
   This amendment gives several things an opportunity to happen. One, first of all, let me celebrate this bill because it gives section 8 vouchers over and beyond the ones that should be assigned to the city of Houston for Houstonians. That has been a conflict. ``I need a section 8 voucher. I live in Houston. Why are you overlooking me?'' 
   Now we have a pathway so that we recognize that we have failed in our long-term evacuation. My friends, accept it. You have done a horrible job. This is a long-term evacuation that we had no solutions to. 
   Particularly I want to thank the author of this amendment and this bill, because now you also give an opportunity for us to go back into public housing. Just using Houston as an example, the predominant number of those who came to Houston were out of the city center there, the civic center, and, of course, the Superdome. They were the people displaced out of the housing projects. Isn't it ridiculous that they want to go back to their city and that we are blocking them from getting into their housing projects? 
   So these section 8 vouchers that will come about in this bill will be helpful while they are trying to get home. This extension that Mr. Green is offering will help them while they are trying to get home. 
   You go to these individuals. Some of them have made a commitment to live in Houston. I guess they made a commitment to live in Atlanta, maybe in New York. But many of them you talk to say, I just want to get home. But they are being blocked by this administration in not being able to get in their public housing, and they are coming up against one deadline after another. 
   You can't get yourself together. We have the elderly and disabled. We don't know if they will ever be able to go back, but they certainly need these resources being offered by Mr. Green in this amendment. 
   I enthusiastically support this concept of an extension to December 31, 2007, Mr. Chairman, and I support the voucher projects of this bill. I ask my colleagues to vote for this bill.  
   When FEMA's temporary housing programs expire on August 31, 2007, over 120,000 families housed across the country through FEMA-funded trailers, mobile homes and rental assistance could be displaced a second time. 
   Housing assistance is critical for the many low-income, elderly, and disabled evacuees displaced by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. An estimated 35,000 families currently receive Section 408 rental assistance from FEMA; the vast majority of these families reside in Houston. The average income of surviving families now in subsidized Houston apartments was less than $20,000 in Louisiana. While more than 60 percent of families were employed before Katrina, less than 20 percent are currently employed. 
   Families continue to face numerous challenges while rebuilding their lives in new communities, including finding affordable housing, health care, child care, and employment. The scarcity of housing in the Gulf Coast disproportionately hurts lower-income households, making it difficult for evacuees to find affordable housing and reducing the likelihood of their return home. Of the units destroyed or damaged by the hurricanes, 71 percent were affordable to low-income families and 30 percent were affordable to very low-income families. 
   This amendment would extend FEMA housing assistance until December 31, 2007, and then transfer income-eligible households to HUD's tenant-based rental assistance program when FEMA assistance ends, so that displaced families will have a place to stay while they wait for housing in the Gulf Coast to be rebuilt. Tenant-based vouchers would also be available to households currently living in FEMA trailers and mobile homes. This is important because conditions in many trailers are deteriorating and deadlines in many local communities for trailers and mobile homes are rapidly approaching. This amendment puts into law the deadline that I have worked on through negotiations and letters to FEMA. 
   The vouchers in this amendment would be ``temporary'' in the sense that they would only be available through the duration of the households' eligibility. Finally, this amendment would require property owners currently receiving rental assistance for displaced households to accept Section 8 vouchers for displaced households. HUD's role in meeting the longer-term housing needs of people displaced by disasters is supported by many members of Congress, housing advocates, and the Bush Administration. Nothing in this amendment would deny Houstonians their right to Section 8 vouchers. 
   I urge you to vote ``yes'' for the Green amendment so that we can provide displaced families with the assurance and stability they need to continue their recovery.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL ENGINEERS WEEK -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise in strong support of H. Res. 59 which supports the goals and ideas of National Engineer Week. As you know, new discoveries and technologies are changing the way Americans live and work. Through dedicated research and development, engineers expand our knowledge and lay the foundation for the progress of our country. This week is an opportunity to recognize engineers for their many contributions to our way of life and to encourage young people to pursue their curiosity by studying math and science. 
   Engineering education began in America under circumstances that differ substantially from those of the other leading professions. Medical schools, for example, were established by individual physicians, and then loosely affiliated with universities. 
   By contrast, engineers were first trained by apprenticeship, particularly on canal construction projects. This tradition was perpetuated on railroad construction projects, and later in factories and machine shops, long after college engineering programs were established. Eventually, engineering schools in the United States were sponsored by the Federal Government, the U.S. Military Academy in 1802, and the land-grant colleges beginning in 1862. They were also fostered by public-spirited citizens who fostered the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and from within established universities in response to interest or demand. 
   The engineering workforce is the driver of society's technological engine, an awesome responsibility. We will not be able to address this responsibility without diversifying the pool of science and engineering talent. This broadening of participation must come from the Land of Plenty, mostly untapped potential of underrepresented minorities and women--America's ``competitive edge'' for the 21st century. 
   We know that more than any other species, humans are configured to be the most flexible learners. Humans are intentional learners, proactive in acquiring knowledge and skills. And, it turns out that we are more successful learners if we are mindful or cognizant of ourselves as learners and thinkers. 
   To date, our knowledge of the science of learning, is just the tip of the iceberg of what we have yet to learn. Our ultimate goal is truly not to waste a single child and to teach and train a workforce that is well prepared and can adapt and change. 
   The revolution in information technologies connected and integrated researchers and research fields in a way never before possible. The Nation's IT capability has acted like adrenaline to all of science and engineering. A next step is to build the most advanced computer-communications infrastructure for researchers to use, while simultaneously broadening its accessibility.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HIRE A VETERAN WEEK -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 5, to express support for the designation and goals of Hire a Veteran Week. This concurrent resolution serves to recognize the men and women in our Armed Forces by encouraging support for them when they come home. 
   One of the biggest items on the agenda of the Democratic majority this Congress is to bring the troops home, because we believe that this is the best way we can support them. At the same time, it is equally critical to continue supporting them once they are home and no longer in active duty, by providing them and their families with the resources they need. 
   American veterans make up over a third of our nation's homeless population, and about 250,000 live on our city streets. Madam Speaker, it is shameful that those who served  our Nation heroically must endure such conditions. 
   Last year, the U.S. Labor Department found that 15.6 percent of America's youngest veterans, aged 20 to 24 years old, were unemployed, as opposed to 8.7 percent of non-veterans at that age. This rate has since fallen slightly, perhaps due to the efforts of the U.S. Labor Department's Veterans' Employment and Training Service, VETS. It is important that we join them in recognizing that veterans need and deserve our support at home too. 
   I commend the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Holt, for introducing this resolution to establish Hire a Veteran Week and to encourage employers to remember our Nation's heroes. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 5, a truly outstanding piece of legislation that reflects the best of our values. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRATULATING LOVIE SMITH AND TONY DUNGY ON BECOMING THE FIRST AFRICAN-AMERICAN HEAD COACHES OF NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE TEAMS TO QUALIFY FOR THE SUPER BOWL -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise in strong support of H. Res. 90 to commend both Lovie Smith, head coach of the Chicago Bears, and Tony Dungy, head coach of the Indianapolis Colts, for leading their respective teams to berths in Super Bowl XLI, to be played this Sunday, February 4, 2007, in Miami, Florida. Never before in history has a team playing in the Super Bowl been led by an African American head coach. Super Bowl XLI will make history as the first Super Bowl to feature not one, but two, African American head coaches. Although it has taken 41 years, this is an achievement of which all Americans can and should be justly proud. 
   Madam Speaker, on January 21, 2007, in Chicago, Illinois, the Chicago Bears, coached by Lovie Smith defeated the New Orleans Saints by a score of 39 to 14 in the National Football Conference Championship game and advanced to Super Bowl XLI. For his phenomenal performance in restoring the Chicago Bears to their former glory as the ``Monsters of the Midway,'' Lovie Smith, the 13th head coach in the storied history of one of the NFL's greatest franchises, was named the Associated Press NFL Coach of the Year for 2005.  
   In the 2005 season, Lovie Smith's Chicago Bear's won 11 games, the most ever by a second-year coach in the history of the Chicago Bears and he became the first second-year coach of the Bears to win a division title, earning the second seed in the National Football Conference playoffs. The 2006 Chicago Bears won 14 of their 16 
   games and earned the top seed in the National Football Conference playoffs. 
   Madam Speaker, on January 21, 2007, in Indianapolis, Indiana, the Indianapolis Colts, coached by Tony Dungy defeated the 3-time Super Bowl Champion New England Patriots by a score of 38 to 34 in the American Football Conference's Championship game to win the right to play the Chicago Bears in Super Bowl XLI for the NFL Championship. Tony Dungy, who is in his 5th season as head coach of the Indianapolis Colts and 11th as an NFL head coach, having previously coached the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to the NFC Championship game in the 2000 season, is one of the NFL's most outstanding head coaches. 
   For example, Madam Speaker, Tony Dungy is only the 35th coach in the history of the NFL to win 100 games in his career. And Tony Dungy leads all NFL head coaches in wins from 1999 to 2005, with a record of 78 wins and 34 losses. Should his Indianapolis Colts prevail in the Super Bowl, Tony Dungy will join Mike Ditka and Tom Flores and become the newest member of one of the most exclusive clubs in all of sports: a Super Bowl champion as both a player and head coach. 
   Madam Speaker, the NFL had a record 7 African American head coaches in 2006 and the 197 African-American coaches, including 7 assistant head coaches, is also a record. While no one would dispute that there is still much progress to be made on the sidelines and front offices of the NFL and other professional sports, it is also indisputable that much progress has been made since Frederick Douglass ``Fritz'' Pollard became the first African American head coach in the NFL in 1922. 
   For this reason, Madam Speaker, I take great pride in congratulating both Lovie Smith and Tony Dungy and their outstanding football teams for their excellence on the field and the dignity with which they have conducted themselves off the field. I join with the more than 100 million Americans and billions of viewers globally who will be watching the Super Bowl in congratulating these two men and their teams for putting themselves within one victory of the sport's ultimate prize. And I join with viewers and fans everywhere in wishing to see one of the great games in Super Bowl history and hoping that the best team wins.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ESTABLISHING THE HOUSE DEMOCRACY ASSISTANCE COMMISSION FOR THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 24, to reestablish the House Democracy Assistance Commission in the 110th Congress. In the 109th Congress, the House of Representatives created this Commission to enable the  Members and staff of the House of Representatives to personally assist their counterparts in the parliaments of new democracies around the world to build strong, independent legislatures. I thank my colleagues, Mr. David Price, the gentleman from North Carolina, and Mr. Dreier, the gentleman from California, for leading the Commission and supporting the promotion of democracy. 
   Under their leadership, the Commission has accomplished a great deal. It undertook congressional delegations to six new or reemerging democracies and hosted six visiting parliamentary delegations here in Congress. It also offered material assistance to several legislatures through USAID. One highly successful project furnished, equipped, and trained staff of the parliamentary library of East Timor, with the invaluable assistance of our own Library of Congress. 
   In the aftermath of September 11, it has been too easy to view some nations more aggressively, as we undertook the obvious course of attempting to dismantle terrorist networks, end the support they received from states, and strengthen domestic and international defense capabilities. But in addition to responding to 
   the immediate security threat, it is also necessary to help democracy take root in those countries of the Middle East, Africa, South and Central Asia, and other regions that now breed or support terrorists. It is in these Muslim countries or regions, more than anywhere else, that terrorism feeds off tyranny, finding recruits among the politically repressed and sanctuary from states that use terror against their own people. Building effective political institutions is the surest way to sever the link between terror and tyranny and to advance the values of democracy, individual rights, and cultural pluralism in the Middle East and elsewhere in the Muslim world. 
   Promoting democratic institutions and values in the Muslim world is thus one of our most urgent challenges. But it is not the only one. Meeting the challenge of democratization in the Muslim world should not warrant a retreat from a global approach; on the contrary, it constitutes a powerful new argument for maintaining and strengthening this approach. As September 11 made clear, any seam of dysfunction in the international system, however marginal to the main centers of political and economic interest, can become a source of exposure and threat. In a globalized world, the cancer of breakdown in any country can metastasize to other parts of the global body politic and thus constitutes a danger to international peace and security. In promoting the antidote of democratic institution-building, therefore, it is unwise to write off any country as insignificant or beyond hope. 
   The global defense of democracy is the appropriate and most effective response to the threat posed by Islamic extremists. As has already been suggested, these extremists do not represent a religion or a civilization but espouse an ideology of hatred and violence as their means to power. Though it is a particularist and corrupted Islamic ideology, to its zealous adherents it is a universal system of truth and thus a fitting rival to democratic civilization, which they falsely describe as decadent and narrowly Western. Since democracy is a genuinely universal value based on the belief that people everywhere, regardless of their religion or culture, can achieve self-government under the rule of law, it is the natural organizing principle in the struggle to defeat terrorism and to create a stable and peaceful world. 
   Pending the passage of this resolution by the full House, in 2007 the House Democracy Assistance Commission plans to assist the legislatures of Afghanistan, Colombia, East Timor, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Macedonia, Mongolia and Ukraine. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and to participate in this important project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM TO ESTABLISH A PUBLIC JUDICIAL INQUIRY INTO THE MURDER OF NORTHERN IRELAND DEFENSE ATTORNEY PATRICK FINUCANE -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 20, to address the issue of the murder of Northern Ireland defense attorney Patrick Finucane. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. SMITH, for introducing this legislation. It is essential that we bring to light the suspicious circumstances of this terrible murder and the need for our friends in the Government of the United Kingdom to conduct a full and transparent inquiry into the matter. 
   On February 12, 1989, Patrick Finucane was murdered by two masked members of the loyalist paramilitary in front of his wife and children in his home in North Belfast. Since then, reports have indicated a strong possibility of conspiracy within the British police in the region. The loyalist paramilitary organization, known as the Ulster Defense Association, UDA, or the Ulster Freedom Fighters, UFF, claimed that it killed Mr. Finucane because of his high rank in the Provisional Irish Republican Army, IRA. Circumstances suggest that Mr. Finucane had ties to the IRA; he had three brothers who were actively involved in the IRA, one of his clients was the infamous IRA hunger striker, Bobby Sands, and former IRA member Sean O'Callaghan alleges he was a member. However, law enforcement authorities have reported that there is no evidence whatsoever that Mr. Finucane was a member of the IRA. 
   In 1999, Royal Ulster Constabulary, RUC Special Branch Agent William Stobie was found to have supplied one of the guns used to kill Mr. Finucane. Agent Stobie was a member of the UDA/UFF, which at the time was a legal organization.  
   In 2001, after significant pressure from Amnesty International and as a result of the Weston Park talks, the British and Irish Governments initiated an investigation. They appointed retired Canadian Judge Peter Cory to examine allegations of collusion by the RUC, British Army, and Peace Guard of Ireland in the murder of Mr. Finucane and others. In 2004, Judge Cory reported that he recommended the establishment of public inquiries into the matter. The British Government later announced an inquiry, but under a recently enacted law, the Inquiries Act 2005, the government was allowed to block scrutiny of state actions. Judge Cory strongly criticized the law. 
   H. Con. Res. 20 passed the House in the last Congress as H. Res. 740, but unfortunately the Senate did not act on the legislation. I urge my colleagues to renew their support for this important legislation by voting in favor of it this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE OF PERCY LAVON JULIAN -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H. Res. 34, which gives long overdue recognition to a great American, Dr. Percy Lavon Julian. Dr. Julian was a brilliant African-American scientist, inventor, civil rights leader and an unsung hero. A pioneer and widely acclaimed for his work in organic chemistry, Dr. Percy broke the color barrier in science. During his lifetime, he made great strides in the field of chemistry. In 1973, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in recognition of his outstanding lifetime achievements. He received 19 honorary degrees and was awarded 105 patents, among them a foam fire retardant, a treatment for glaucoma, and a low-cost process to produce cortisone. 
   Born in 1899, in Montgomery, AL, the grandson of slaves, Dr. Julian overcame many obstacles and racism and went on to be the first member of his family to attend college. He was the valedictorian of his graduating class at DePauw University in 1920, then went on to receive his M.S. from Harvard University in 1923 and later getting his Ph.D. from the University of Vienna in 1931. 
   At a time of inequality for African-Americans, Dr. Julian persevered and pioneered a commercial process to synthesize cortisone from soy beans and yams, enabling the widespread use of cortisone as an affordable treatment of arthritis. Dr. Julian also became the first to discover a process to synthesize physotigmine, the drug used in the treatment of glaucoma. 
   Dr. Julian broke down barriers to achieve many significant firsts in his lifetime, one of which was becoming the first Black scientist hired for a high-level corporate research position as director of research at the Glidden Company. It was here during his 18-year tenure that he launched a process for the chemical synthesis of cortisone whose affordability promulgated its widespread use. 
   Not only was Dr. Julian an esteemed scientist and innovator, he was also a leader in his community and a champion for civil rights. In 1950, on Thanksgiving Day, before moving in to his new home in the exclusive Chicago Oak Park neighborhood, his home was firebombed. Not one to crumble in the face of adversity, Dr. Julian instead fought tirelessly for integration and went on to encourage the Human Relations Commission in the village government and the Oak Park Housing Center in Illinois towards becoming one of the most efficient systems of integration in the country. 
   Dr. Julian's business savvy was showcased in 1954 when he left the Glidden Company to establish his own laboratories, Julian Laboratories. There he specialized in producing his synthetic cortizone and established Laboratorios Julian de Mexico in Mexico City and used wild yams in Mexico, which he found to be more effective than soy beans for some of his products. His business savvy was further evidenced when he sold the Oak Park plant to Smith, Kline, and Smith for $2.3 million, an astounding amount of money for anyone during that time period. 
   Dr. Julian played an integral role in his Chicago community as a civil rights activist. He founded the National Negro Business and Professional Committee for the Legal Defense fund, raised funds for the NAACP and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
   Many African-American pioneers and leaders, who came long before the civil rights movement for equality, were not recognized for the contributions they made to this Nation and were never thanked for bettering our society and contributing to humanity. Too many were forgotten and unrecognized for their diligence and commitment to their field of work and their contribution that continues to affect each and every one of our lives today. 
   As we draw closer to the month of February and Black History month is recognized, let us take a moment to honor an unsung hero, let us declare that his memory is not forgotten. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and honor Dr. Julian Percy because he embodies the ideals that make America a great nation: pioneering spirit, hard work, innovation, perseverance, and dedication.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 400TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE JAMESTOWN SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 117, which commemorates the 400th anniversary of the settlement of Jamestown. 
   On May 14, 1607, just over 100 English settlers landed on the banks of the James River, in what is today the state of Virginia. The first permanent English settlement in North America, Jamestown weathered extreme hardship, starvation, and warfare to become the foundation upon which our Nation was built. We can recognize many of our democratic ideals in institutions developed by the Jamestown settlement. It was in this colony, in 1619, that the House of Burgesses, the first locally elected legislative body in the New World, was convened in a Jamestown church. 
   As a nation, we have come a long way since our early colonial days. We fought a war with each other to abolish slavery, which was introduced in Jamestown in the same year as the House of Burgesses. We gradually extended full citizenship and equal rights to African Americans. While the settlers that landed in 1607 were all male, we have in the past 400 years, incorporated women into all aspects of our Nation's political, economic, and social life. And while the early colonial settlements fought wars with their Native American neighbors, we have, in recent decades, made serious efforts toward making amends for injustices done to native tribes. 
   This resolution serves to remind and educate Americans about the importance of our history. It highlights that the economic, political, religious, and social institutions developed during our colonial past continue to form the backbone of our society today. Significantly, this resolution also draws attention to the crucial role the native people played in the success of the Jamestown colony, and in the formation of our Nation. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we celebrate the 400th anniversary of Jamestown, this legislation urges us to understand and engage with our history as Americans. I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL SUFFRAGISTS DAY -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 105, supporting goals and ideals of a National Suffragist Day to promote awareness of the importance of the women suffragists who worked for the right of women to vote in the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, as a woman who has not only enjoyed the privileges and responsibilities of voting, but also of serving my country in elected office, I am extremely proud to co-sponsor this resolution honoring those women who fought for my right, and the right of all women, to participate in the process of governing. 
   This bill recognizes the tireless work and innovative ideas of women in particular. Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Sojourner Truth, Carrie Chapman Catt, Maud Wood Park, Lucy Burns, and Alice Paul were visionaries in their own times, and remain inspirations to us today. These seven women each challenged a system of male dominance, and asserted the role of women in politics and governance. Many of their methods of civil disobedience and peaceful protesting were taken up by the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 60s, which expanded voting rights to even more of the population. 
   July 19th will be the anniversary of the first women's rights convention, held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848. To celebrate their accomplishments and raise awareness of the importance of the suffragists who fought for and won the right of women to vote in the United States, this bill designates July 19th as National Suffragists Day.  
   Mr. Speaker, any of these women would be amazed and proud to see an America where women are not only able to vote, but they are able to run for office. It is incredibly appropriate that this body, presided over by a woman for the first time in its history, should honor their work through a day set aside to raise awareness of their struggle. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am especially pleased to support this resolution because it gives much deserved recognition to one of my heroes, Sojourner Truth, the great abolitionist and suffragist. 
   In 1843, deciding her mission was to preach the word of God, Sojourner Truth--the name she gave herself as a traveling preacher who speaks the truth--left New York and traveled throughout New England, calling her own prayers meetings and attending those of others. She preached ``God's truth and plan for salvation.'' 
   After months of travel, she arrived in Northampton, Massachusetts, and joined the Northampton Association for Education and Industry, where she met and worked with abolitionists such as William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, and Olive Gilbert. 
   As we know, during the 1850s, slavery became an especially issue in the United States. In 1850, Congress passed the Fugitive Slave Law, which allowed runaway slaves to be arrested and jailed without a jury trial, and in 1857, the Supreme Court ruled in the Dred Scott case that those enslaved had no rights as citizens and that the government could not outlaw slavery in the new territories. 
   While traveling and speaking in states across the country, Sojourner Truth met many women abolitionists and noticed that although women could be part of the leadership in the abolitionist movement, they could neither vote nor hold public office. It was this realization that led Sojourner to become an outspoken supporter of women's rights. 
   In 1851, she addressed the Women's Rights Convention in Akron, Ohio, delivering her famous speech ``Ain't I a Woman?'' The applause she received that day has been described as ``deafening.'' From that time on, she became known as a leading advocate for the rights of women. Indeed, she was one of the nineteenth century's most eloquent voices for the cause of anti-slavery and women's rights. 
   It was to give proper recognition to her contributions to the struggle to abolish slavery and secure equal rights for women that I introduced H.R. 4510 which would direct the Joint Committee on the Library to accept the donation of a bust depicting Sojourner Truth and to display the bust in a suitable location in the Capitol. In February of this year, that legislation became law. 
   I strongly support H. Con. Res. 105, and I urge my colleagues to join me in doing so.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF PEACE OFFICERS MEMORIAL DAY -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is an appropriate resolution that comes before us. I know that in a couple of days many of us will be out on the West Lawn commemorating and celebrating the Nation's law enforcement officers from across the Nation. We welcome them to this Congress every year, and we do so humbly and with great appreciation. 
   Let me acknowledge the work that many of us have done with our local law enforcement in the State of Texas. We have a multitude of law disciplines, from the constables office. I have the privilege of representing the first African American constable, Mae Walker, and representing Constable Victor Trevino, a Hispanic constable. We have deputy sheriffs. We have the sheriff's department. We have the Houston Police Department, the Department of Public Safety. In many instances we find great leaders who believe not only in crime fighting, but crime prevention. 
   I rise today to focus in particular on the importance of law enforcement in working in the community. I salute the former mayor of the city of Houston, Lee Brown, former chief of police of the cities of Houston, New York, and Atlanta. I consider him the father of community-oriented policing that really speaks to the hearts and minds of the people. 
   It lets the police officers, law enforcement officers, become knowledgeable about the community, and in particular they work to know the ``good guys'' and the ``bad guys.'' Neighbors become comfortable with law enforcement officers when they are engaged as people who are certainly concerned about the neighborhood and the community. They are eager to help them bust, if you will, the crime situation or bust the criminal or make sure that the situation is corrected. 
   At the same time as we raise up and respect our law enforcement officers, let me applaud those who I speak to all the time as I travel to Washington. We have a very effective aviation police force. I get an opportunity as I go through the airport to listen to them and to thank them. 
   Let us be concerned about the benefits for law enforcement officers. In particular, I know that my city, a very large city, has seen the decline of senior officers. For some reason or another, because our belts are being tightened, we don't have enough resources to provide them with the upward mobility, the professional development and the protection of their pensions and to recognize the sacrifice that they and their families are making. We as communities across the Nation should be concerned about making sure they have the right kind of benefits. 
   On the Federal level, I am very glad that the House Judiciary Committee has just passed out a COPS bill reauthorization. I think that is a very, very important aspect of the work of this Congress. The COPS program worked. It provided police officers for rural communities and urban communities. I spoke to my police personnel there and they said, yes, it would help us greatly if the COPS program were reauthorized. So as we salute our peace officers across America, let us make sure that we are actually doing as we are saying, and that is providing them with the resources that they need. 
   At the same time, let me also add the importance of training. There is the sensitivity that our police officers are able to get through experience, but training also helps them detect those with mental illness and have the best resources to address those suffering from mental illness so that those persons can be taken away from society before they do harm to themselves or someone else. 
   This legislation is timely because we thank those who are serving today. We offer our deepest sympathy to the families of those who have lost their lives on the front lines of law enforcement in America over the last year, and we certainly acknowledge the continued sacrifice that law enforcement officers will make. 
   The best point about what this says as we stand on the floor today saluting them is that we should promote and congratulate good law enforcement officers. We should not allow the bad incidents that occur, the mishaps that occur, and many of them have occurred, and I have stood up vigorously against them and I will stand up yesterday, today and tomorrow, when there is abuse. But we should not allow those kinds of situations to take away from the grandeur, the respect, the honesty, the integrity and the downright commitment that the law enforcement agencies of America, particularly those in our local communities, show every single day with the idea that as they leave in the morning and kiss their families good-bye, that they might sacrifice their lives so that we might be safe. 
   We owe them a great debt of gratitude, and it is my pleasure to thank the distinguished gentleman from Illinois and thank the sponsor of this legislation for allowing me to pay tribute at this time.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 291, supporting the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day. 
   Peace officers, the sworn, public-sector officers entrusted with law enforcement authority and the power of arrest, risk their lives daily to protect our Nation. These individuals, who are responsible for safeguarding the rights and freedoms we enjoy as Americans, are true heroes. 
   Peace Officers Memorial Day honors those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for the safety and security of their communities and our Nation. Created by Public Law 87-726, signed by President Kennedy in 1962, this day gives us the opportunity to acknowledge and pay our respect to those who, through their courageous deeds, have fallen in the line of duty. 
   Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, May 13, 2007, 382 names will be added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial during the 19th Annual Candlelight Vigil. These 382 names include 145 officers who died in the 2006, plus 237 from earlier years who had previously been lost to history. Of these 382 names, 55 represent Texas law officers who lost their lives in the line of duty, nine of them in 2006. 
   Mr. Speaker, one of the names of the fallen heroes to be added to the list is Officer Rodney J. Johnson of the Houston Police Department. Officer Johnson, a 12-year veteran of the Houston Police Department, was killed September 21, 2006, while taking a suspect in custody during a traffic stop. He leaves to honor his memory his beloved wife, Houston Police Department Officer Joslyn Johnson, and five teenage children; three daughters and two sons, ages 14 to 19. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson was born in Houston and served in the U.S. Army as a military police officer until being honorably discharged in 1990. He then went to work as a corrections officer for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice and then as a jail attendant. He graduated from the Houston police academy in 1994. 
   As a member of the department's Southeast Gang Task Force, Officer Rodney Johnson earned two Lifesaving Awards and one Medal of Valor from the State of Texas. In January 1998, Officer Rodney Johnson rescued a physically challenged driver trapped in rising floodwaters in January 1998 and later that year he rescued mentally challenged people trapped inside of a burning house. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson, who stood 6 feet 5 inches tall and weighed nearly 300 pounds, served on his union's board of directors. As Hans Marticiuc, the president of Officer Johnson's union stated, ``he was big and he was intimidating-looking, but he was as gentle as a baby bear.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, the number of officers killed in the line of duty last year declined nearly 8 percent from 2005, when there were 157 officer deaths. The 2006 figure was the lowest annual total since 1999, when 143 officers were lost. 
   Although the number of officers killed in the line of duty has declined in recent years, the fact that one officer is killed every 2 1/2 days in our country is a sober reminder that protecting our communities and safeguarding our democracy come at a heavy price. Including this year's officers, there are now 17,917 names engraved on the Memorial, representing offices from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, U.S. territories, and Federal law enforcement and military police agencies. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution, honoring the Federal, State, and local peace officers killed or disabled in the line of duty.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL SECURITY FOREIGN INVESTMENT REFORM AND STRENGTHENED TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Let me thank the chairman of the full committee and Chairman Frank and the ranking member of the full committee for the heavy lifting that has been done. 
   I rise to support H.R. 556, and in the course of it, let me try to remind my colleagues why we got here. Among many reasons, I think the incident involving the Dubai Ports was not only a shock to the very fine Financial Services Committee, but a shock to Homeland Security, it was a shock to America. And the focus was not around I don't want jobs created by foreign investment; it was around, you mean to tell me we have been exposed to the potential of terrorist activities or control? Certainly some of the suggestions and allegations were probably far-blown because people are fearful. And that is why we have come together to work on these issues from a collective Financial Services perspective and a number of other jurisdictions. On the CFIUS committee is the Secretary of Commerce, is the Secretary of Homeland Security, so therefore, these diverse issues can be addressed. 
   I rise to support H.R. 556 because of one particular reason. There is transparency. There is no more of the shock value. Across America we are now selling roads. We don't know what else we will be selling. We may be selling doors to banks as it relates to foreign investment. Not that we disagree with foreign investment. We want it to be balanced. And the way the bill has been constructed, one, there is a wide diversity of responsibility, including the Secretaries of Treasury, Homeland Security, Commerce, Defense, State and Energy, very appropriate, Attorney  General, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, the U.S. Trade Representative, Director of Office of Management and Budget, Director of National Economic Council, and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. I can't imagine a more inclusive group to be able to make a very studied assessment, one, of protecting us, which is the real question that Americans ask, who's in my backyard, who's at my back door, and also not to reject legitimate, forthright and job-creating opportunities. 
   In the transaction process that has been laid out by this bill, it is a study in thoughtfulness. And I think it will work. This determination will be assessed: whether the transaction involves a foreign government-controlled entity, whether the transaction threatens to impair national security, and the review cannot mitigate the concern. So there you are again, no cover-up, transparent. The National Intelligence Director identifies concerns and if CFIUS cannot agree upon methods to mitigate these concerns, any one CFIUS member agency votes against approving the transaction. So one entity, it may be Commerce, it may be Homeland Security, can raise a concern about this transaction. 
   This is, I think, a fast action on a matter that could not be addressed and did not get addressed in the last Congress. But we are here today talking about ways of securing America and working financially and businesswise with the various constituencies that would be impacted. I find this as a wonderful first step. Coming from the State of Texas, I can assure you that there is a lot of busy-ness about selling roads. It again raises its head of concern about security questions. I have always made the point, do we put making money over security? I believe that we have made a very important first step to strengthen this process, of recognizing the balance. My subcommittee on this question looks forward to hearings after the fact on the actual practical aspects of the selling of infrastructure in the United States, but we now have a body of thought through H.R. 556 which we can use as a form of study and relief. 
   In conclusion, let me again thank the sponsors of this bill, I am a cosponsor of it as well, but the chairman and ranking member and also for moving this swiftly and quickly and really answering the question of both transparency, jobs and security, might I say security being number one. I ask my colleagues to support the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMMIGRATION CONCERNS -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I was certainly listening to my friend express himself on important issues. I believe it is important for this floor and this Congress to really turn on the light and have a transparent government. And so I will attempt this evening to share some of my concerns as they relate to a number of issues that I believe we have both the interest of the American people in making it transparent in its debate, but also an obligation, in some instances, to even save lives. 
   First let me say that with all of the missteps on immigration issues, there is no route left for this Congress to take other than to begin a debate on comprehensive immigration reform, because until we get an orderliness with the individuals that are in this country and the securing of the border, all of the frustration will continue. And so I think it is the right step to make to save lives of those who would come into this country undocumented, fleeing for an economic opportunity; for the needs of the Border Patrol agents in the northern and southern border, what I consider to be a plus-up. Inasmuch as the support system provided by the National Guard has a time certain to end, we need to be constructive and look toward comprehensive immigration reform. 
   I want to add to that discussion what I think is an injustice that has occurred to two particular Border Patrol agents who now languish in jail because they have been prosecuted by the Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney's Office. After the U.S. attorney prosecuted, he was heard to have said, I am sorry I had to do it, I wish there was another way. Well, Mr. Speaker, there was another way, and that is, of course, there could have been administrative action. And that is the issue surrounding the Border Patrol agents who fired at a fleeing alien, undocumented, across the border, wounded that individual, none of which I applaud, none of which I believe that any comments I make tonight sanction, but the harshness of 12- and 13-year sentences for what could have been an administrative proceeding to fire those individuals inasmuch as they were in the line of duty, this act of a prosecution and jailing does not speak to the sensibleness of addressing this question of inappropriate behavior, or, if you will, out-of-procedure behavior that might have occurred in this instance. 
   The real question is why did the U.S. attorney proceed for a criminal prosecution? That needs to be corrected. And I have asked the Attorney General for an explanation and a reason why his U.S. attorney proceeded in that manner. Prosecutorial discretion was used wrongly. 
   Let me conclude by suggesting that we are also wrongly in the Iraq war. There will be an opportunity forthcoming to make a very serious and deliberative decision about whether we continue the funding of this Iraq war. This is not in any way a diminishing of the heroics and the work of our United States military. I frankly believe, through my legislation, the U.S. Military Success Act, and the plussing up of diplomacy affirms that these individuals have done their job. 
   It is now time for methodical, deliberative debate on how we do not interfere with the leadership of the United States military and brass and leaders on the ground in Iraq, but begin to give them the assignment of a strategic redeployment of our troops. It is the right decision to make when you look at the debacle of housing conditions for returning injured troops, when you see the mounting numbers of 22,000, 23,000, 25,000 severely injured troops, many of them with brain injury, as we saw very eloquently put forward by Bob Woodruff, who did a wonderful expos&#233; after himself being a real miracle of recovery, to show the imploded brain injuries of these soldiers. 
   We are not there to babysit the insurgent violence and civil war violence and possibly al Qaeda violence. We should be engaged in the war on terror, but not as, in essence, a sitting symbol for them to abuse and misuse. And frankly, that is what the Iraq war has become. 
   I applaud some of the diplomatic successes, determining how to organize the oil revenues, and some of the other steps that the Iraqi Government has made. They can continue to make that so that their reconciliation and the downing of the violence can be based upon a reconciliation diplomatic act. If  there is a deployment time set, redeployment, it will give the generals on the ground the opportunity to secure the area and as well make sense of this terrible, terrible incident. We need to end the war now and bring our troops home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF THE LATE HON. JULIA CARSON -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Love conquers all. And I rise today, Madam Speaker, to join the celebration, for although we mourn, we celebrate the life of JULIA CARSON, and celebrate we must. 
   I'm delighted to have listened to my colleagues in the Special Order led by Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES and to hear my friends and colleagues from Indiana. But for a moment I offer my sympathy to those of JULIA CARSON's district, to the good people of Indianapolis, to the good people of Indiana, and, yes, to the American people. For JULIA CARSON truly represented and will be remembered as an American hero. 
   I believe that JULIA would not mind our recalling for our colleagues why she was so keenly committed to those who could not speak for themselves and could not help themselves. For JULIA CARSON's history, by its very nature, directed her into the fight for  those who, like herself, grew up with very little, but yet could look to this great country and actually believe that they could achieve their dreams. For JULIA was born to a teenage mother, and that, from the time that she was born in the late 1930s, going into the early 1940s and World War II, was a struggle and an unsurmountable task in and of itself. They had to struggle together. JULIA CARSON herself raised two children as a divorcee. So first of all, she understood what a single parent, a mother with two children, had to overcome to make sure that those children saw in themselves and saw in her a future. 
   It's likely that she was already destined for public service, and so by finding Andy Jacobs, her finding him and as well his finding her, it was a match made in heaven. But she stopped along the wayside to give support and comfort to workers, United Auto Workers, and understood what it meant, a hard day's work for a good day's pay. So early on she was on the battlefield, and her time in respective legislative bodies only spoke to her continued desire to serve. 
   But I like something about JULIA and I like something about the description of her. And my good friend and colleague from Indiana, Congressman Hill, just said a liberal in Indianapolis. I ask the question how you can walk around in Indiana and call yourself liberal and be victorious. That was JULIA. Love conquers all, the love that she had for her people, but the love that they had for her stood largely to embrace her and surround her with armor against those who would try to do her political harm. 
   I was fascinated in listening to the Congressmen speak of the vigil. Can you imagine people just gathering out of pain and joy, the pain of possibly losing Congresswoman Carson, but also the joy of having her. Going to her house. Now, we are the people's House. So Members of Congress are exposed and people know all about them. But can you imagine people feeling so comfortable that they would come to her block and just stand in silence or singing or praying or testifying just to say, We want to be near her. 
   What a moving expression that must have been, and I'm so sorry that I missed it. But it was a showing of their own appreciation for her resilience, her astuteness, and her ability to be underestimated. 
   I went to Indianapolis, and it was that first year, her reelection after her first term, Madam Speaker, and yes, they were all out. And it was the year of the targets, it was the year of impeachment here in this body, and people were not feeling good, they were feeling ugly. And the right wing, as it could be defined, and I don't say it in a partisan way, but the guys who were trying to get her in reelection came up with all kinds of things. Soft on crime, they accused her of, a number of issues that they thought would get her unelected. 
   Well, I'll tell you, she had a good history with the people of Indianapolis. In fact, she even had some conservatives supporting her. Why? Because she was truthful in her belief for social services. But she also came up with the idea that welfare recipients should work for their benefits. I'm sure it was crafted around giving them hope and giving them goals and giving them the ability to believe that they could succeed, but she was applauded for that. And she was called a person who wrestled a problem to the ground. 
   Madam Speaker, I close by simply saying that we have lost a warrior, a soldier on the battlefield, but tonight we celebrate her life. My sympathy to her family. And thank you, JULIA, for being our friend and my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman. I, because of my representation of the energy capital of the world, Houston, Texas, support this particular legislation, for it makes a new statement about energy.  
   Mr. Speaker, first and foremost, I think it is imperative that we all agree on the vital importance of America achieving energy independence in the 21st century. We must end our addiction to foreign sources of oil, most of which are found in regions of the world which are unstable and in some cases, opposed to our interests. Accordingly, there is no issue more integral to our economic and national security than energy independence. 
   The Energy Independence and Security Act is important and multifaceted legislation which will make substantial strides toward energy independence for our Nation, while also encouraging the development of innovative new technologies, creating new jobs, reducing carbon emissions, protecting consumers, shifting production to clean and renewable energy, and modernizing our energy infrastructure. 
   I would like to begin by commending the Speaker of the House, Ms. Pelosi, for her leadership in introducing this legislation and bringing it to the floor. The bill we have before us today builds upon the New Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, of which I was a supporter, which passed last summer. This new piece of legislation represents Democrats' commitment to bring a comprehensive new direction to the people of the United States, a new direction which must ensure America's energy independence as well as an America conscious of and working to combat global climate change. 
   In addition to being from the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years I have been the chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of energy Braintrusts designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. My Energy Braintrusts were designed to be a call of action to all of the sectors who comprise the American and international energy industry, to the African American community, and to the Nation as a whole. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. Bringing together thoughtful yet disparate voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a nation achieve energy security and energy independence.  
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. The energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. That is why it is crucial that while seeking solutions to secure more energy independence within this country, we must strike a balance that will still support an environment for continued growth in the oil and gas industry, which I might add, creates millions of jobs across the entire country. 
   We have many more miles to go before we achieve energy independence. Consequently, I am willing, able, and eager to continue working with Houston's and our Nation's energy industry to ensure that we are moving expeditiously on the path to crafting an environmentally sound and economically viable energy policy. Furthermore, I think it is imperative that we involve small, minority and women owned, and independent energy companies in this process because they represent some of the hard working Americans and Houstonians who are on the forefront of energy efficient strategies to achieving energy independence. 
   This unprecedented piece of legislation contains numerous important provisions. Specifically, it contains provisions that will require that new cars and trucks increase their fuel economy standards to 35 miles per gallon by the year 2020. This provision alone is estimated to save American families $700 to $1,000 a year at the gas pump. Congress has not increased the fuel economy standards since 1975, illuminating the historical new direction this Congress is taking to ensure America's energy security and independence. 
   Furthermore, this important legislation encourages and promotes the use of renewable forms of energy produced right here in the United States. Not only does it require that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources, but it also provides incentives in the form of tax credits for those American's who are conscious of their energy production and consumption. With America's leading energy producers as an integral part of the solution to our current foreign energy dependence, we will be able to move forward to a new period in which America will be secure in its domestic energy supply. 
   According to the U.S. Minerals Management Service, MMS, America's deep seas on the Outer Continental Shelf, OCS, contain 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, the U.S. consumes 23 TCF per year, and 86 billion barrels of oil, the U.S. imports 4.5 billion per year. Even with all these energy resources, the U.S. sends more than $300 billion, and countless American jobs, overseas every year for energy we can create at home. I believe that we should mandate environmentally safe and efficient exploration techniques in the gulf coast which energy companies have demonstrated a willingness and capacity to utilize. By ensuring access to increasing sources of energy in an environmentally conscious way, I believe we can decrease our dependence on foreign oil. 
   This bill also contains a crucial international component. Global climate change is a truly global problem. It is real; it is imminent; and it is our responsibility to work with the rest of the international community to develop a coordinated global response to this potentially devastating phenomenon. Because this legislation contains an unprecedented fuel efficiency standard as well as a renewable electricity standard in conjunction with a myriad of energy efficiency provisions, it will significantly reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the United States that lead to climate change. 
   Furthermore, I support innovative solutions to our national energy crisis, such as my legislation which alleviates our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels by utilizing loan guarantees to promote the development of traditional and cellulosic ethanol technology. This legislation significantly strengthens and extends existing renewable energy tax credits, including solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydro, landfill gas, and trash combustion. Furthermore, it will bolster research on geothermal, solar, and marine renewable energy, providing us with the information we need to move forward in the trajectory of clean, renewable, and domestically produced energy. 
   The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. The world's greatest petroleum reserves reside in regions of high geopolitical risk, including 57 percent of which are in the Persian Gulf. 
   Replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, it can end our addiction to foreign oil. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our Nation's petroleum consumption. 
   Along with traditional production of ethanol from corn, cellulosic ethanol can be produced domestically from a variety of feedstocks, including switchgrass, corn stalks, and municipal solid wastes, which are available throughout our Nation. Cellulosic ethanol also relies on its own byproducts to fuel the refining process, yielding a positive energy balance. Whereas the potential production of traditional corn-based ethanol is about 10 billion gallons per year, the potential production of cellulosic ethanol is estimated to be 60 billion gallons per year. 
   In addition to ensuring access to more abundant sources of energy, replacing petroleum use with ethanol will help reduce US carbon emissions, which are otherwise expected to increase by 80 percent by 2025. Cellulosic ethanol can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 87 percent. Thus, transitioning from foreign oil to ethanol will protect our environment from dangerous carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. With its commitment to American biofuels, this legislation calls for a significant increase in the Renewable Fuels Standard. It encourages the diversification of American energy crops thus ensuring that biodiesel and cellulosic sources are key components in America's drive to become energy independent. 
   This legislation goes further than any previous attempt at securing America's energy security by providing incentives and rewards for the population for their use and production of renewable energy. It will also help the American family in its production of over 3 million green jobs over the next 10 years as well as increasing the loan limits that will help small businesses develop energy efficient technologies and purchases. 
   Mr. Speaker, this comprehensive legislation addresses the full range of concerns raised by global climate change. It offers wide-ranging solutions to the serious problems we, as a nation and as an international community, face. It demonstrates the ongoing commitment of this Democratic Congress to address these important issues, and to provide tangible and beneficial solutions. 
   I am proud that through our efforts at compromise, this legislation reflects an improvement from H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2007, which we passed in August. However, I am concerned that this legislation still contains provisions repealing tax incentives for oil and gas companies which may have a negative effect on access to important sources of energy. In particular, I am concerned that the domestic manufacturing deduction could discourage new domestic oil and natural gas investment by making these investments comparatively less competitive than competing foreign investments. Moving forward, I think it would be prudent for this Congress to consider linking an increase on taxes with an increase in access to domestic exploration of available sources of energy, such as the gulf coast. 
   I urge my colleagues to be balanced and prudent in their approach in addressing our energy needs. By investing in renewable energy and increasing access to potential sources of energy, I believe we can be partners with responsible members of America's energy producing community in our collective goal of reaching energy independence.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INVOLVE ALL IMPACTED BY MASS TRANSPORTATION DECISIONS -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to rise again today to again commend the Transportation Committee, the full committee Chair Mr. Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica on H.R. 6052. I wanted to discuss very briefly an amendment that I offered, part of which was included in the manager's amendment, and it has to do with promoting education, but as well to address the question of involving all of those impacted. 
   It reads that ``public transportation stakeholders should engage local communities in the education and promotion of the importance of using public transportation in cities and counties, and in the planning, development and design of transportation routing lines.'' 
   This is particularly of interest to constituents in Houston as we build a new metro system. Today they broke ground in the east end. I congratulate them. But as we look to make sure that we are involving all of the participants, the stakeholders need to address the question of routing. 
   The only way that you will provide mass transit as a system for all the people is they must buy into it. We have a situation in Houston where we are looking to reroute from Wheeler, and I hope that this bill will get this understanding. Promote education of mass transit and get the stakeholders and communities to buy into it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SAVING ENERGY THROUGH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman from Minnesota and as well his ranking member, who I hope is recognizing the importance of the work that we are doing here today, and, of course, the Members that have spoken. 
   Madam Chairman, I rise today to support the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008 and also to speak to the manager's amendment that incorporates my language that speaks specifically to encouraging, I hope insisting, that stakeholders, whether they be cities and counties or various transit agencies, engage the public in the question of promoting public transportation. 
   The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has shared a recent study that states that if Americans use public transit at the same rate as Europeans for roughly 10 percent of their daily travel needs, the United States could reduce its dependence on imported oil by more than 40 percent, nearly equal to the 550 million barrels of crude oil that we import from Saudi Arabia. 
   Right as we speak, Houston, Texas, the fourth largest city in the Nation, is beginning to grow its mass transit system. It started by the advocation of many of us, including our former mayor Lee P. Brown, which required,  because of the restraints here in Washington and the difficulties of our being able to get consensus, it was started by our own tax dollars. The 7 1/2 mile transit system that was started at least 3 or 4 years ago has now become one of the fastest new starts in America and is located in my congressional district shared with my fellow colleague in the Ninth Congressional District. What it says is that new starts should be increased in months to come. And as we look to expanding opportunities for transit systems and reducing our use of oil, it is important as well that we look to collaborative efforts on efficient transportation systems. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SAVING ENERGY THROUGH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, let me ask my colleagues to support this legislation, and I hope to get time on the manager's amendment.  
   Madam Chairman, thank you, and thank you Chairman Oberstar for your efforts on energy conservation with H.R. 6052--``Saving Energy through Public Transportation Act of 2008.'' The Transportation and Infrastructure has once again produced legislation that will help Americans save money and develop new modes of transportation. 
   The primary objective of this legislation is to reduce the United States dependence on foreign oil by encouraging more people to use public transportation. The Transportation and Infrastructure has shared a recent study that states if Americans used public transit at the same rate as Europeans--for roughly 10 percent of their daily travel needs--the United States could reduce its dependence on imported oil by more than 40 percent, nearly equal to the 550 million barrels of crude oil that we import from Saudi Arabia each year. 
   Rising gas prices have only added to this country's economic downturn. When we add this cost into our troubled housing markets, soaring food prices, and a war without a clear end--the importance of this legislation becomes even more apparent. 
   I urge transportation systems such as Houston METRO to work in greater coordination with their local community to ensure that routing lines make not only economic sense, but practical sense as well. 
   Community involvement is essential, which is why I offered an amendment that would state that ``public transportation stakeholders should engage local communities in the education and promotion of the importance of using public transportation in cities and counties; and in the planning, development, and design of transportation routing lines.'' 
   I am pleased that my amendment was incorporated into the manager's amendment. However, I am disappointed that all the language was not incorporated--leaving out the key portion of community involvement in planning, development, and design of transportation routing lines. 
   I still support this measure and I sincerely hope that our local public transportation agencies take the communities' use into account as well as their thoughts on what routes would add value and which routes may actually do more harm than good. It is our residents who utilize the mass transit systems not the planning boards. 
   In my district of Houston, Texas, many residents utilize the public transit system to alleviate congestion as well as to control cost. I believe it is imperative that we have full community involvement in the discussions surrounding outreach, planning, design of mass transit. 
   Our parents who are trying to hold one child, guide another, balance their bags and get to work; it is our elderly who need extra time to get onto trains and buses; and our youth who are trying to get back and forth to school and activities--these are the people who can and will utilize public transportation. The incentives are there for commuters but they should be examined with community involvement so the right message is sent. 
   This act will add value to our public transportation by: 
   Authorizing $1.7 Billion of Capital and Operating Funds for Transit Agencies to Reduce Fares and Expand Transit Services. This section authorizes $850 million (General Fund) for each of fiscal years 2008 and 2009 to allow public transit agencies to reduce transit fares and expand transit services. These funds will allow transit agencies to provide incentives for commuters to choose transit options, thereby reducing our nation's transportation-related energy consumption and reliance on foreign oil, as well as decreasing its greenhouse gas emissions. These funds will be distributed under current law urban and rural transit formulas. The Federal share for these grants is 100 percent and funds will only be available for a two-year period. 
   Increasing the Federal Share for Clean Fuel and Alternative Fuel Transit Bus, Ferry, or Locomotive-related Equipment and Facilities from 90 percent to 100 percent. The bill increases the Federal share for the alternative fuel vehicle-related equipment from 90 percent to 100 percent of the net project cost for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. 
   Extending Transit Benefits to All Federal Employees. The bill establishes a nationwide Federal transit pass benefits program and requires all Federal agencies in the United States to offer transit passes to Federal employees. 
   Requiring the Department of Transportation (DOT) to Establish Specific Guidance for Implementing the Nationwide Transit Pass Benefits Program. The guidance will ensure that Federal agencies have the necessary administrative procedures to ensure that Federal employees properly use the program. It also requires the Department of Transportation (DOT), the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of Energy to implement a nationwide three-year pilot transit pass benefit program for all qualified Federal employees of those agencies. 
   Establishing a Vanpool Pilot Program. The bill establishes a two-year pilot program to allow the amount expended by private providers of public transportation by vanpool for the acquisition of vans to be used as the non-Federal share for matching Federal transit funds in five communities. The provision requires the private providers of vanpool services to use revenues they receive in providing public transportation, in excess of its operating costs, for the purpose of acquiring vans, excluding any amounts the providers may have received in Federal, State, or local government assistance for such acquisition. The Department of Transportation will implement and oversee the vanpool pilot projects, and will report back to Congress on the costs, benefits, and efficiencies of the vanpool demonstration projects. 
   Increasing the Federal Share for Additional Parking Facilities at End-of-Line Fixed Guideway Stations. The bill increases the Federal share for additional parking facilities at end-of-line fixed guideway stations to increase the total number of transit commuters who have access to those stations. 
   Therefore Madam Chairman, I urge my colleagues to vote for H.R. 6052, which seeks to address energy conservations through public transportation.  
   Amendment to H.R. 6052, as Reported 
   Offered by Ms. Jackson-Lee of Texas 
    Page 3, after line 25, insert the following:
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRANIAN CONFERENCE IN PARIS: 2ND ANNUAL WORLD DEMOCRACY CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my support for those who promote democracy in Iran and stability in Iraq. In Paris, thousands of Iranians have gathered to celebrate a big victory today. It is a great day for the Iranian people and their resistance. 
   On Monday, the government of the United Kingdom formally removed the Iranian opposition from the U.K.'s Terror list. This happened after many years of campaign by the organization. Legislators approved the decision of the Proscribed Organization Court of Appeal, which ruled in May that the People's Mujahedeen of Iran (MEK) should no longer be listed as a proscribed group. 
   It is a great day for the Iranian people, for all freedom loving people of Iran who have been forced to leave Iran, and for their just resistance. It was great to hear that the British government formally removed an Iranian opposition group from the U.K.'s Black list on Monday, after many years of campaign by the organization. 
   As a Representative of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, I have had the pleasure, of working with a strong and vibrant Iranian population in Houston. They have contributed immensely to the cultural diversity, economic and political dynamic of Houston. As a Member of Congress, I find Iran's support of terrorist organizations, pursuit of nuclear weapons, and dismal human rights record to be extremely worrisome. However, I am also concerned by what appears to be precipitous movement by this Administration toward yet another war in the Gulf region, without having first exhausted diplomatic means of addressing any conflicts. 
   I have long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic Iran. I believe in an Iran that holds free elections, follows the rule of law, and is home to a vibrant civil society; an Iran that is a responsible member of the region and the international community, particularly with respect to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. An Iran that, unfortunately, we do not see today. 
   Today, the Bush Administration announced a set of new sanctions against Iran. The Administration labeled the elite Quds division of the Revolutionary Guard Corps as supporters of terrorism, and stated that the entire Revolutionary Guard Corps was engaged in proliferating weapons of mass destruction. These designations trigger unilateral sanctions designed to impede the Revolutionary Guard, and any who might do business with it. These new sanctions mark the first time that the United States has taken such a step against the armed forces of any sovereign government. 
   The only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran's policy, is to assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, and religious liberty. Every government can be judged by the way in which it treats its ethnic and religious minorities, and the current Iranian government gets a failing grade for its treatment of its many and diverse minorities. 
   Given the government's poor record for transparency and accountability, the International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) inability, despite intensified inspections since 2002, to verify that Iran's nuclear program is not designed to develop a nuclear weapon is cause for great concern. While Iran states that the intention of its nuclear program is for electricity generation which it feels is vital to its energy security, U.S. officials challenge this justification by stating that ``Iran's vast gas resources make nuclear energy programs unnecessary.'' 
   The controversy surrounding Iran's procurement of nuclear energy is cause for great concern, however, the Administration's avoidance of any and all diplomatic relations with Iran are cause for greater alarm. Moreover, the current rhetoric from the Bush Administration regarding war with Iran is both counter productive and highly inflammatory. While full diplomatic, political, and economic relations between the U.S. and Iran cannot be normalized unless and until enforceable safeguards are put in place to prevent the weaponization of Iran's  nuclear program, these policy objectives should not constitute pre-conditions for any diplomatic dialogue. 
   Establishing a diplomatic dialogue with the Government of Iran and deepening relationships with the Iranian people would help foster greater understanding between the people of Iran and the people of the United States and would enhance the stability the 
   security of the Persian Gulf region. Doing so would reduce the threat of the proliferation or use of nuclear weapons in the region while advancing other U.S. foreign policy objectives in the region. The significance of establishing and sustaining diplomatic relations with Iran cannot be over-emphasized. Avoidance and military intervention cannot be the means through which we resolve this looming crisis. 
   I am planning to introduce important legislation that will call for human rights and religious freedom in Iran. The Iranian people have continued to ask for democracy to reign free in their country and I intend to support the Iranian people in that endeavor. As you know, over the past few months, the people of Iran have been standing up to Iranian government. I am aware that at least 5000 acts of protest took place last year. I applaud your efforts to encourage those who have raised their voices against the extremists in Iran. 
   The United Nations has condemned Iran 54 times for its atrocious human rights record. Inhumane treatment of youths, women and workers by the government of Iran is further evidence of the regime's intolerance. Iranian women have shown they play a pivotal role in establishing democracy and ensuring human rights in Iran. 
   We all must work together for a stable and democratic Iraq. Today, there is undisputable evidence that Iran is the main contributor to the violence in Iraq which causes American casualties. The extremist government in Iran has acted to ensure the failure of Iraqi reconciliation. Iran is part of the problem in Iraq and does not wish to be part of the solution. But Iraq's tribal leaders are standing up to the Islamic extremism coming from Iran. I know that over 3 million Iraqi Shiites have signed a declaration this month rejecting Iran's meddling. They have also shown support for the Iranian opposition MEK living in Ashraf. I support their invaluable efforts for peace and stability in Iraq. 
   Although many disagree with the current status of this war in Iraq, all agree that we must collectively work to stop Iranian-style fundamentalism from taking root in Iraq. Let me here recognize your actions in support of democracy in Iraq as well as in Iran. With many continuing to suggest that military action in Iran is the best way to deal with our political discrepancies, it is now time to renew our efforts in strengthening our diplomatic policies in the Middle East. The same people who called for attacking Iraq now are raising the drumbeat for military action against Iran. 
   Despite the November 2007 U.S. National Intelligence Estimate concluding that Iran had halted its nuclear weapons program, the Bush administration is bolstering its case for war by labeling Iran one of the greatest threats to American security. Bombing Iran would bring disastrous consequences. The entire Middle East likely would descend into further violence putting the well-being of innumerable civilians at risk. U.S. standing in the world would plummet and oil prices would soar. A U.S. attack would only strengthen hardliners in Iran. 
   Supporting the efforts of the Iranian people who want democracy is especially important now that the UK government confirmed on June 24, that the MEK was no longer ``Concerned in terrorism'', and officially took the name of the organization off their black list. This is a great victory for the cause of democracy in Iran. In light of the recent developments, the United States must seriously consider the court's findings and also remove the limitations it has placed on the MEK. 
   The world community must strengthen the sanctions on the clerical regime. It must also immediately recognize and support the Iranian resistance as the democratic alternative to the regime in Iran. 
   Today, the mullahs are increasingly using oppression inside and terrorism outside of Iran as a foreign policy tool. The solution to the current crisis is often perceived to only have two solutions--war or appeasement. I disagree. There is a third option. The Third Option introduced by Mrs. Maryam Rajavi relies on the strength of the Iranian people and their organized resistance. This is the best and least costly alternative. Let us not continue to make the mistake of appeasing Iran. As a viable alternative, we must move to support the Iranian people and their resistance. Only you can bring about democratic change in Iran. 
   I have come to know the people of Iran and appreciate their thirst for freedom. My message to them is this: rest assured that it is attainable. I wish you the best in your struggle for peace, freedom and democracy.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ELECTRONIC MESSAGE PRESERVATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this legislation. H.R. 5811, the Electronic Message Preservation Act, requires the preservation of certain electronic records by Federal agencies, requires a certification and reports relating to Presidential records, and requires that the information be readily retrieved through electronic searches. 
   E-mail, because of its nature, presents challenges to records management. First, the information contained in e-mail records is not uniform: it may concern any subject or function and document various types of transactions. As a result, in many cases, decisions on which e-mail messages are records must  be made individually. Second, the transmission data associated with an e-mail record--including information about the senders and receivers of messages, the date and time the message was sent, and any attachments to the messages--may be crucial to understanding the context of the record. Third, a given message may be part of an exchange of messages between two or more people within or outside an agency, or even of a string (sometimes branching) of many messages sent and received on a given topic. In such cases, agency staff need to decide which message or messages should be considered records and who is responsible for storing them in a recordkeeping system. Finally, the large number of federal e-mail users and high volume of e- mails increase the management challenge. 
   Preliminary results of GAO's ongoing review of e-mail records management at four agencies show that not all are meeting the challenges posed by e-mail records. Although the four agencies' e-mail records management policies addressed, with a few exceptions, the regulatory requirements, these requirements were not always met for the senior officials whose e-mail practices were reviewed. Each of the four agencies generally followed a print and file process to preserve e-mail records in paper-based recordkeeping capabilities. (Among other things, a recordkeeping system allows related records to be grouped into classifications according to their business purposes.) Unless they have recordkeeping capabilities, e-mail systems may not permit easy and timely retrieval of groupings of related records or individual records. Further, keeping large numbers of record and nonrecord messages in e-mail systems potentially increases the time and effort needed to search for information in response to a business need or an outside inquiry, such as a Freedom of Information Act request. Factors contributing to this practice where the lack of adequate staff support and the volume of e-mail received. In addition, agencies had not ensured that officials and their responsible staff received training in recordkeeping requirements for e-mail. If recordkeeping requirements are not followed, agencies cannot be assured that records, including information essential to protecting the rights of individuals and the Federal Government, are being adequately identified and preserved. H.R. 5811 ensures that these records will be kept properly. I support this legislation and urge my colleagues to do likewise.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMUNITY BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION GRANT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 4461 to promote and enhance the operation of local building code enforcement administration across the country by establishing a competitive Federal matching grant program. I would first like to thank my distinguished colleague, Representative DENNIS MOORE of Kansas, for introducing this important legislation. This legislation will provide grants to qualified local building code enforcement departments to increase in the quality and availability of service provided by the departments. These grants will be provided by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development on a competitive basis provided that the potential grantees can demonstrate need and develop plans for the use of the funds, local governmental actions, public outreach, and enforcement. 
   In disasters all around the country, studies have shown that a significant portion of the damages could have been prevented by rigorous enforcement of building codes. In studies of the damaged caused by Hurricane Andrew in 1992, researchers found that a quarter of the storm's damages could be attributed to a combination of shoddy workmanship and a lack of enforcement of the building code. The California Seismic Safety Commission's investigation into the damage caused during the 1995 Northridge earthquake in southern California found that much of the damage could have been avoided if building codes had been enforced. We cannot allow the same tragedies to occur time and again. About 2 million homes are at risk from coastal storms, 10 million from flooding, 25 million from wind hazards, and 50 million from earthquakes. So much of the damage caused by these disasters is preventable; we just have to provide resources to local authorities to take the appropriate steps. 
   By passing this bill, we are sending a message that this is not right. It is not right that a home or a school full of children is destroyed because builders used inferior concrete to save money. We cannot afford to be lax when the safety of all American citizens is at stake. The injury or death of a single person in a preventable accident cannot be tolerated. 
   In this bill, the funds granted to local building code enforcement administrations would be used to increase staffing, provide staff training, increase staff competence and professional qualifications, support individual certification or departmental accreditation, or for capital expenditures specifically dedicated to the administration of the local building code enforcement department. We can ensure through the screening process that the funds go to communities that both need them and have plans to use them. Departments that receive funds under this program will be required to match a certain percentage based on population unless the department can show significant economic distress in the area they serve. Furthermore, this bill increases the departments' accountability. Grant recipients are obligated to fully account and report for the use of all grants funds and provide a report to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development on the effectiveness of the program. 
   This bill will serve to increase the safety of all Americans and the confidence they have in the structure of the buildings they use everyday, from their place of employment to the schools where their children learn to the homes they sleep in at night. By spending now, we will reap the benefits for years to come.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF ``NATIONAL INTERNET SAFETY MONTH'' -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1260 supporting the goals and ideals of ``National Internet Safety Month''. I would first like to thank my distinguished colleague, Representative Melissa Bean of Illinois, for introducing this important legislation. The bill reaffirms our commitment to the safety of our children when they use the internet and the importance of providing information and training to develop skills to use the internet safely. 
   We all know what an amazing tool the internet is. We can do everything from taking classes to reconnecting with old friends online. But despite this, the internet has many flaws. 
   In America, 93 percent of children ages 12 to 17 use the internet, but how wisely do they use it? Studies have shown that approximately 24 percent of students in grades 5 through 12 have hidden their online activities from their parents and 61 percent of them admit to using the internet unsafely or inappropriately. Even when they aren't looking at inappropriate material, children are picking on one another. 43 percent of teens ages 13 to 17 have experienced cyber bullying within the past year. This must stop. 
   It saddens me that a wonderful resource like the internet can be used in such a damaging way. Cyber bullying is a serious epidemic that must be addressed by all levels of government. Unlike regular bullying, where there is often physical damage, cyber bullies leave their victims with lasting emotional trauma. With the high level of connectivity our children now have, it is nearly impossible for them to escape these new bullies. We owe our children more. 
   It is up to us to teach our children the difference between right and wrong in life and this principle should not be ignored when dealing with the internet. In passing this resolution, we are telling parents that the children need guidance and that it is their responsibility to provide that guidance. 
   And we can help the parents in their task. 61 percent of parents want to be more involved in the internet safety of their children. It is simply a matter of giving them the tools they need to get involved. When we pass this legislation, we help parents, educators, Internet service providers, and volunteers to increase their efforts to raise the level of awareness for the need for online safety in the United States. 
   The Houston public libraries have recently adopted a budget that would allow them to provide all their branches full internet access. In doing so, however, they added a limitation: the computers in the children's section would have filters to prevent them from accessing inappropriate material. This is an example the rest of the nation needs to follow. We can all take simple actions like installing filters and monitoring internet use to make our children safer. 
   I urge my colleagues to pass this resolution and establish our support of internet safety. Tell communities around the nation we need to follow the example of Houston's public libraries and consider the children when designing policies. Tell communities that progress needs to be made.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOMES FOR HEROES ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3329, the ``Homes for Heroes Act.'' I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and to support our troops in their efforts to obtain homes. I thank my friend Congressman Al Green for this thoughtful legislation 
   This important piece of legislation amends the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act to establish in the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs to: (1) ensure veteran access to HUD housing and homeless assistance programs; (2) coordinate all HUD programs and activities relating to veterans; and (3) serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
   This legislation, directs the HUD Secretary to provide assistance to private nonprofit organizations and consumer cooperatives to expand the supply of supportive housing for very low-income veteran families (that is, families with incomes not exceeding 50 percent of the area median income ). 
   H.R. 3326, amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to: (1) make housing rental vouchers available to homeless veterans; and (2) include veterans in public housing planning. 
   Excludes veterans' benefits from income for purposes of HUD assisted housing rental determinations. 
   This legislation requires the Secretary to: (1) make grants to nonprofit entities for technical assistance in sponsoring HUD housing projects for veterans; and (2) report annually to specified congressional committees and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on HUD activities relating to veterans. 
   I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to ensuring that we respect our veterans. Veterans have kept their promise to serve our nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. We must now ensure that we keep our promises to our veterans. 
   Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I hope we will all take the time to show appreciation to those who have answered the call to duty. As the great British leader Winston Churchill famously stated, ``Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' 
   With the approval of legislation on June 1, 1954, November 11th became a day to honor American veterans of all wars. Later that same year, on October 8th, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a decorated veteran of war, issued the first ``Veterans Day Proclamation'' which stated in part: ``In order to insure proper and widespread observance of this anniversary, all veterans, all veterans' organizations, and the entire citizenry will wish to join hands in the common purpose.'' It was with that endearing spirit that America celebrated the first Veterans Day. 
   We must always remember the debt that we owe our fallen veterans that have paid the ultimate sacrifice. From the four surviving World War I veterans known to be living in the United States, to the over 300,000 veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom we expect to see by the end of 2008. Our gratitude must continue to be unwavering to our soldiers and veterans. 
   In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ``As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the praises of our nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I believe it is necessary for the nation to act now so that we all can pay respect, tribute, and homage to the lives of the armed services veterans who have fought to keep America free and have fought to make sure that all people and nations partake in the universal freedoms that we find so important in this country. These individuals have given so much and have paid us the ultimate sacrifice: the sacrifice of their lives. The least that we can do, is ensure that these veterans are able to secure homes when they return home from battle. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST AMERICAN WOMAN IN SPACE, DR. SALLY K. RIDE, AND HONORING HER CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SPACE PROGRAM AND TO SCIENCE EDUCATION -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1313, Celebrating the 25th Anniversary of the first American Woman in Space, Dr. Sally K. Ride. This legislation gives us the opportunity to extend our appreciation and gratitude for Dr. Ride's excellence in service to the Nation as an astronaut, educator, and advocate for the next generation of women scientists and engineers. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague from Texas, Congressman Lampson, for introducing this important legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, Sally K. Ride of Los Angeles, California, a physicist by training and an accomplished athlete, was selected as a National Aeronautics and Space Administration, NASA, astronaut candidate in 1978, as part of the eighth class of NASA astronauts and one of only six women in the class. On June 18, 1983, Dr. Ride was lofted into space aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger as part of the STS-7 crew, making her the first American woman in space. As a representative from ``Space City Houston'', I am personally inspired by Dr. Ride's accolades and triumph over the status quo. 
   The STS-7 crew launched two communications satellites from the shuttle and accomplished many first steps for the United States space program, including the first release and capture of a satellite using the shuttle's robotic arm, the first demonstration of a shuttle's flight in formation with a free-flying satellite, and the first United States-German cooperative material science experiments aboard the shuttle, as well as the conduct of other science experiments. 
   On October 5, 1984, Dr. Ride courageously made her second spaceflight as a mission specialist on STS 41-G, a mission that demonstrated the ability to refuel satellites in orbit and launched NASA's Earth Radiation Budget Satellite, which spent over 20 years providing valuable scientific data on the Earth's absorption and re-radiation of solar energy. However, training for Dr. Ride's third spaceflight assignment ceased after the tragic loss of the Space Shuttle Challenger and her crew in 1986. Following this, Dr. Ride was called to serve on the Presidential Commission on the Space Shuttle Challenger Accident. 
   Refusing to let the tragic loss of her crewmen deter her from her passion, Dr. Ride continued to serve the Nation's space program with distinction, authoring the 1987 report, Leadership and America's Future in Space, and serving on the Columbia Accident Investigation Board. As an educator, author of children's books, and advocate for the next generation of women in science, mathematics, and technology, Dr. Ride's work has contributed to the wellbeing of our youth. 
   Dr. Ride has worked tirelessly and passionately to encourage young women to follow the sciences, mathematics, and technology by promoting science festivals, camps, and other opportunities through which young women can acquire hands-on learning about science. 
   Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in recognizing Dr. Sally K. Ride. This legislation gives us the opportunity to extend our appreciation and gratitude for Dr. Ride's excellence in service to the Nation as an astronaut, educator, and advocate for the next generation of women scientists and engineers.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1315, Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, NASA. As we mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the United States space program, this legislation reaffirms the ever growing and changing role of NASA, providing resources to carry the agency forward with its ambitious agenda of research, exploration, and discovery. I would like to thank Congressman MCCAUL for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Science Committee Chairman for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
   I have long supported NASA and I have offered an amendment to H.R. 6063, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2008. 
   My amendment clarifies that the NASA Outreach and Technology Assistance Program will include small, minority-owned, and women-owned businesses. It would also give preference, in selection of businesses to participate in the program, to socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, and HUBZone small business concerns. 
   Mr. Speaker, today's resolution will allow NASA to continue to push the boundaries of what is possible, keeping our Nation on the forefront of innovation and exploration. After the Columbia disaster, NASA stands at a pivotal moment in its history. It is the responsibility of this Congress to ensure. that the future of NASA is one of continued progress. Space exploration remains a part of our national destiny. It inspires our children to look to the stars and dream of what they too, one day, may achieve. Space exploration allows us to push the bounds of our scientific knowledge, as we carry out research projects not possible within the constraints of the planet Earth. As a Nation, we have made tremendous strides forward in the pursuit of space exploration since President John F. Kennedy set the course for our nation in 1962, calling it the ``greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked.'' Despite the setbacks of recent years, including the tragedy that befell  the Space Shuttle Columbia, NASA and the American people have refused to abandon the pursuit of knowledge of our universe. On October 1, 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began operation. At the time it consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million. Over the next 50 years, NASA and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory have been involved in many defining events occurred which have shaped the course of human history and demonstrated to the world the character of the people of the United States. 
   Many of us remember how inspired we were when on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed: ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to earth. No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish. ``The success of the United States space exploration program in the 20th Century augurs well for its continued leadership in the 21st Century. This success is largely attributable to the remarkable and indispensable partnership between the National Aeronautics, and Space Administration and its 10 space and research centers. One of these important research centers is located in my home city of Houston. The Johnson Space Center, which manages the development, testing, production, and delivery of all United States human spacecraft and all human spacecraft-related functions, is one of the crown jewels of the Houston area. 
   Today, NASA is the Nations' primary civil space and aeronautics research and development agency, and its current activities employ over 18,000 Americans. Today's legislation reaffirms the fundamental operating principles of NASA, emphasizes the importance of NASA leadership in a range of endeavors such as Earth observations and research, aeronautics reach and development, and an exploration program. 
   Always on the forefront of technological innovation, NASA has been home to countless ``firsts'' in the field of space exploration. America has, countless times, proven itself to be a leader in innovation, and many technologies that have become part of our everyday lives were developed by NASA scientists. The benefits of NASA's programming and innovation are felt far beyond scientific and academic spheres. Space technologies provide practical, tangible benefits to society, and NASA provides valuable opportunities to businesses in our community. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation, and in support of the future of American innovation and exploration.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SBIR/STTR REAUTHORIZATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 5819, to reauthorize the ``SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act.'' This legislation extends the federal government's largest small business research and development programs for two years, increases funding for small research firms by half a billion dollars, and modernizes the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program so that it is better aligned with the needs of small research firms. I would like to thank my colleague Congresswoman VEL&#193;ZQUEZ for introducing this legislation, as well as for her ongoing leadership as Chairwoman of the Committee on Small Business. 
   Madam Chairman, this legislation is very important to the constituents of my community and the nation as a whole because it will continue to provide funding for small business innovation research and small business technology transfer programs by extending these programs until FY2010. Small businesses represent more than the American dream--they represent the American economy. Small businesses account for 95 percent of all employers, create half of our gross domestic product, and provide three out of four new jobs in this country. 
   Minority businesses are also crucial to our communities and our country. According to statistics published by the United States Census Bureau, in 2002 nearly 2 in 5 black-owned firms operated in health care and social assistance. Black entrepreneurs owned 9.7 percent of all such businesses in the United States. Statistics gathered between 1997 and 2002 show substantial increases in the number of black owned firms with receipts of $1 million or more, as well as the number of black owned firms with 100 employees or more. Black-owned firms accounted for 5 percent of all non-farm business in the United States in 2002. 
   In my home city of Houston, small businesses are vital to our economy. In 2002, Harris County ranked 6th in the nation for counties with the largest number of black-owned firms, with 27,770 firms with receipts totaling 1,817 million dollars. I have worked to introduce minority, women, and small business owners to contracting officials at NASA to help promote and develop Houston small businesses. I was proud to support H.R. 1873, the Small Business Fairness in Contracting Act, which passed the House in May of last year, and to introduce two amendments, both of which were accepted to the bill. The first amendment brings transparency, accountability and responsiveness to the process of procuring federal contracts. I also successfully introduced an amendment mandating that whenever there is a disagreement between the SBA and the contracting procurement agency, the appropriate House and Senate committees with jurisdiction over the matter are informed. 
   Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STIR) Program are two crucial research and development programs. Through these two competitive initiatives, the Small Business Administration, SBA, ensures that the nation's small, high-tech, innovative businesses are a significant part of the federal government's research and development efforts. Created by Congress in 1982, SBIR is the largest government-wide research and development initiative in existence. According to SBA, eleven federal departments participate in the SBIR program, and five departments participate in the STIR program, awarding $2billion to small high-tech businesses. 
   The legislation that we are considering today updates the SBIR program, bringing into step with today's technologically-driven world. It will both increase access to SBIR funding, and 
   work to leverage the advances made by small businesses to benefit the competitiveness of the U.S. economy. 
   Madam Chairman, this legislation includes provisions designed to encourage more small firms to apply for SBIR and STIR awards. It doubles the size of SBIR and STIR awards for Phase I and Phase II grants, and provides access to technical assistance. This legislation also places an emphasis on areas where further research is particularly needed, providing incentives for small business innovation research on alternative fuels and orphan diseases. Through these provisions, this legislation speaks both to the needs of small businesses and of the broader American population. 
   Madam Chairman, I am particularly pleased that this legislation establishes an initiative to diversify participation in these important programs. This legislation aims to increase participation by small businesses located in underrepresented geographic areas, as well as those owned and controlled by women, veterans, and minorities. I believe this provision will both diversify the program and increase competition for the important awards. 
   Further, the act increases partnerships between SBIR awardees and prime contractors, venture capital operating companies, and larger businesses. This act has laudable goals and will ensure that small businesses have at their disposal more advanced technology that can be used for the development of our local communities. This act ensures that the technology and innovation would be used to further small businesses and local economic development. 
   Madam Chairman, over the past 25 years the SBIR program has supported many of our nation's most successful entrepreneurial enterprises. Many of these small, innovative businesses have grown into powerful technical companies that have kept the United States on the cutting edge of technological enterprise. Today, by voting for this legislation, we are making sure that this important program is of the maximum benefit both to American entrepreneurs and to all the citizens of this nation. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WAR PROFITEERING PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 400, the ``War Profiteering Prevention Act of 2007.'' I support this bill because it strengthens the tools available to Federal law enforcement to combat contracting fraud during times of war, military action, or relief or reconstruction activities. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 400 creates a new criminal offense in title 18 of the United States Code for fraudulent acts involving contracts or the provision of goods and services in connection with war, military actions, and relief or reconstruction activities. This new offense provides a significant new tool for federal law enforcement, as well as creating a strong deterrent to those who would contemplate exploiting the exigencies of war, military actions, relief or reconstruction activities to commit fraud and profit thereby. 
   The new offense may be committed in two ways: (1) By committing fraud or (2) by making a materially false statement. The fraud provisions would make it a crime to execute or attempt to execute a scheme or artifice to defraud the United States or to materially overvalue any good or service with the specific intent to defraud. These provisions are designed  to prohibit schemes to defraud the United States, including efforts to exploit ``cost plus'' or ``no-bid'' contracts by materially overvaluing goods or services with the specific intent to defraud. 
   These provisions are not intended to prohibit or punish contractors providing goods or services in the normal course of business, and the legislation specifically requires that violators may only be criminally liable if they materially overvalue any good or service ``with the specific intent to defraud.'' This provision is intended to ensure that no contractor will be prosecuted under this offense for mere negligent or mistaken conduct. 
   The material false statement provisions would make it a crime to: (1) Falsify, conceal, or cover up by any trick, scheme or device a material fact; (2) make any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations; or (3) make or use any materially false writing or document knowing they contain a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement. This language is consistent with other material false statement provisions under Federal law, such as sections 1001 and 1035 of title 18 of the U.S. Code. The new offense also requires that conduct be done knowingly and willfully to constitute a criminal violation. 
   The new offense would require that the fraud or material false statement be in connection with any war, military action, or relief or reconstruction activities. This would include circumstances where war was declared, or where the executive branch was engaged in any military action with or without congressional authorization. This would also include relief or reconstruction activities, whether or not a war or military action was undertaken. This new offense is intended to deter fraud and material false statements committed in connection with any of these exigencies. 
   The new offense also requires that the conduct be subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. This term is to be interpreted broadly consistent with the jurisdictional scope of the federal material false statement statute, 18 U.S.C. &#167;1001. In addition, the new offense explicitly provides extraterritorial jurisdiction and is intended to extend jurisdiction for this offense to the full extent of U.S. law. This provision has been included to ensure that offenses occurring outside the United States, even by non-U.S. nationals, may be prosecuted. Furthermore, consistent with other federal fraud provisions, the U.S. Government need not be a victim or suffer a loss from this offense provided the conduct meets the other elements of the offense. The bill also establishes venue for the offense as authorized by existing federal statutes (see 18 U.S.C. &#167;3231-3244) including extradition, or in any district where any act in further of the offense took place, or where any party to the contract or the provider of goods or services is located. 
   Violations of the fraud provisions in this bill would be punishable by imprisonment for up to 20 years, and violations of the material false statement provisions would be punishable by imprisonment for up to 10 years. All violations of this new offense would be subject to fines of up to $1,000,000 or twice the gross profits or other proceeds of the offense. The offense provides for criminal and civil forfeiture of any unlawful proceeds, and makes the new offense a predicate crime for money laundering (18 U.S.C. &#167;1956(c)(7)) and for racketeering offenses (18 U.S.C. &#167;1961(1)). 
   Let us strengthen the tools available to federal law enforcement to combat contracting fraud during times of war, military action, or relief or reconstruction activities. I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 400, the ``War Profiteering Prevention Act of 2007.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPANDING STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND BRAZIL -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman for her leadership and my good friend and colleague Mr. Bilirakis for their support of this legislation. 
   Let me commend Congressman Engel and Congressman Burton, both chairman and ranking member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs, and the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Lantos, and the ranking member of the committee. 
   This is an important step that cements and further enhances the relationship between Brazil and the United States, the largest economy, population land mass in South America. 
   But it's even more important to reinforce the strategic relationship that we are establishing between Brazil and the United States, the friendship that we are establishing, and to have both countries wake up to the importance of our relationship to each other and for it to be a natural relationship. 
   Brazil is also the right country in which to cooperate with alternative energy sources. It has an enormously diverse population and a very large Afro-Brazilian population. In fact, it is the largest African population in South America. 
   I would hope that as we move forward on this legislation that we emphasize the successful relationship between Brazil and the United States as we work towards alternative fuels. This is a good partnership. It is a good legislative initiative, and I congratulate the sponsors and look forward to working with them on expanding our relationship between the United States and Brazil. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JO ANN DAVIS, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I rise to pay tribute to a great American and a member of this House. JO ANN DAVIS was a veteran legislator, businesswoman, and Member of Congress from Virginia's First Congressional District. Her district, which stretches from the Washington suburbs to the Hampton Roads area, is often called ``America's 1st District; the site of the Jamestown settlement is located there. 
   Congresswoman Davis was the second woman from Virginia, and the first Virginia Republican woman, elected to the House in her own right. She was reelected by substantial margins in 2002, 2004, and to her fourth term in 2006. She was a productive member of three very important committees in the House: Armed Services, Intelligence, and Foreign Affairs. She was the ranking Republican on the House Intelligence Subcommittee on Intelligence Policy. 
   Jo Ann Davis was born in Rowan County North Carolina, but lived in Virginia since she was 9 years old. She attended Hampton Roads Business College and worked in real estate before she was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates in 1997. She was reelected in 1999, where she served until her election to Congress. 
   Congresswoman DAVIS died on Saturday, October 6, 2007 and was a respected member of this body and respected by all who knew her. She was a legislator's legislator. She was known to often to put aside partisan politics and reach across the aisle to legislate in a bipartisan manner for the best interests of the American people. 
   Her presence will be greatly missed and we all mourn her loss and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband Chuck and her children and grandchild. 
   Mr. Speaker, a dear colleague has fallen but she will not be forgotten. We are all saddened by our loss but we are happy to have served with her. Our prayers and condolences go out to her husband, Chuck, her children, and to thousands of friends around the Nation. She touched so many lives during her tenure in this body and she will be missed very much by the people she represented so ably. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRIBUTE TO THE LATE HONORABLE JO ANN DAVIS -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to pay tribute to our fallen colleague, the Honorable JO ANN DAVIS, Member of Congress from the Commonwealth of Virginia. Let me, first of all, offer my deepest sympathy to her family and to acknowledge the special role that Congresswoman Davis had in this body. 
   She was a veteran legislator, a business woman, and a Member of Congress from Virginia's First District. She was the first Virginia Republican woman elected to the House in her own right, and she was the second woman from Virginia to be elected in the United States Congress. 
   More importantly, she loved the work. She loved this House and loved America. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Intelligence, and Foreign Affairs Committees, she was diligent in her work. I am reminded of her participation in the Women's Caucus. The caucus was bipartisan. We had many opportunities, as women Members of the United States House, to sit together to study issues, particularly health issues, the way a number of diseases impacted women. We were able to gather together to sponsor legislation that particularly focused on enhanced research on diseases that impacted women negatively. 
   I am reminded of the leadership of a former colleague also recently deceased, Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald, who organized  the women's effort to lay a wreath at the Women's Memorial at Arlington Cemetery, and I have in my mind a memory of Congresswoman Davis joining us on those many occasions, uniting around our effort to pay tribute to women members of the armed services of the United States of America. 
   So this evening I simply say that we will miss her, thank her for her pioneering spirit and her leadership, and I would like to say simply to her husband, Chuck; her children; and to thousands of her friends around the Nation and in her district our prayers and condolences are to your family and certainly to your community. So many lives were touched by your service. So we say to you, farewell, our dear friend. May you rest in peace.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DENOUNCING THE PRACTICES OF FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, ``HONOR'' KILLINGS, ACID BURNING, DOWRY DEATHS AND OTHER GENDER-BASED PERSECUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 32) denouncing the practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, ``honor'' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths, and other gender-based persecutions and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that participation, protection, recognition, and independence of women is crucial to achieving a just, moral, and honorable society, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DENOUNCING THE PRACTICES OF FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, ``HONOR'' KILLINGS, ACID BURNING, DOWRY DEATHS AND OTHER GENDER-BASED PERSECUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume. 
   I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 32, denouncing the practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, ``honor'' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths, and other gender-based persecutions and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the participation, protection, recognition, and independence of women is crucial to achieving a just, moral, and honorable society. 
   Allow me to thank Chairman Lantos and Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for working with my staff and working collaboratively to bring forward this legislation that really is a statement of our committee. 
   Let me also thank the staff who worked on this bill. The full committee: Kristin Wells, Pearl-Alice Marsh, Joan Condon and Yleem Poblete. I also thank the members of my staff: Yohannes Tsehai, Nina Besser and Samia Elshakie. 
   It is very important as we move forward in making this statement that we recognize that we are attempting to save lives. 
   May I share with my colleagues the loneliness of being a woman anywhere in the world where they're not protected against brutality, dowry killings, honor killings, and that they have no refuge and no opportunity to address their grievances in their own Nation. 
   Might I show you some of the dastardly pictures, horrific that they are, showing how women are burned, how women are scarred, and how women are beaten all over the world. 
   It is time for the United States to join in making a very pronounced statement because women are lonely, and they need the statement or the support of women and this Congress. 
   I would like to thank the chairman of the Foreign Affairs, as I indicated, my good friend and colleague, Congressman Lantos, again, and as well the ranking member. 
   In recent decades, women have made crucial strides toward equality. Our daughters now have a wide range of options and opportunities, and they can look forward to a life full of promise. Despite this important progress, women and girls throughout the world, including here in our own Nation, continue to face gender-based persecutions. 
   In many parts of the world, a culture of violence and discrimination persists, denying women rights equal to those of men, and legitimizing the exploitation of women for personal gratification, political purposes and financial gain. My legislation strongly denounces such practices and reaffirms the societal values of the independence of women. 
   Human rights violations against women and girls know no borders. They take place throughout the world on six continents. Statistics are shocking. In North Africa, 6,000 women are genitally mutilated each day. Over 7,000 women in India are killed by their families and in-laws in disputes over dowries annually. A woman in Pakistan was raped by a person in the military, and no one was willing to address her grievances. 
   More than 15,000 women will be sold as sexual slaves in China this year. Two hundred women in Bangladesh are horribly disfigured when their spurned husbands or suitors burn them with acid each year, according to the Bangladesho Prime Minister. 
   The 2002 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe estimates that the leading cause of death worldwide among women ages 14 to 44 is the violence they are subjected to in their own homes. In the Russian Federation alone, every day 36,000 women are beaten by their husbands or partners. Even here in the United States, a woman is raped every six minutes, and a woman is battered every 15 seconds. 
   Mr. Speaker, these practices are contrary to international law. In 1998, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda issued a groundbreaking verdict with the successful prosecution of rape as a tool of genocide. Further prosecutions under the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia solidified rape as a crime of war and as the basis for prosecution for torture. Despite these ever-evolving legal traditions, the rape of women continues to be used as an instrument of armed conflict in the 21st century. 
   I'm very proud of the Foreign Affairs Committee because we work in a bipartisan manner, and therefore, this legislation was able to come out of the committee in a bipartisan manner. And so, as we look to be of help, this is an important forward step in acknowledging the brutality towards women around the world. 
   In addition to rape, another persistent form of gender-based persecution is female genital mutilation. Despite existing laws forbidding this practice, this tradition is often embedded  in cultural, religious and nonmedical practices, making it more difficult to overcome. Such traditions legitimize the exploitation of women for personal gratification and political gain. 
   The situation faced by women worldwide is intricately tied to a number of other issues that we have addressed in recent months in the committee. Women and children are particularly affected by extreme poverty, which exacerbates the obstacles they face. Nearly 70 percent of those living in abject poverty are women, according to the United Nations. And while women perform two-thirds of the world's work, they earn less than 5 percent of all income, and they own less than 1 percent of all property. The United Nations estimates that three of every four illiterate adults in the world are women, and two-thirds of children denied primary education are girls. 
   I ask my colleagues to support H. Res. 32.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 32, denouncing the practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, ``honor'' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths, and other gender-based persecutions, and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the participation, protection, recognition, and independence of women is crucial to achieving a just, moral, and honorable society. 
   I would like to thank the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, my good friend and colleague Congressman Lantos, for his support and his leadership on this important issue. I have been pleased to work with the Committee on this legislation, and I would to thank the Committee staff for their work on this issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, in recent decades, women have made crucial strides toward equality. Our daughters now have a wide range of options and opportunities, and they can look forward to a life full of promise. Despite this important progress, women and girls throughout the world, including here in our own nation, continue to face gender-based persecutions. In many parts of the world, a culture of violence and discrimination persists, denying women rights equal to those of men, and legitimizing the exploitation of women for personal gratification, political purposes and financial gain. My legislation strongly denounces such practices, and reaffirms the societal value of the independence of women. 
   Human rights violations against women and girls know no borders. They take place throughout the world, on six continents. The statistics are shocking. In North Africa, 6,000 women are genitally mutilated each day. Over 7,000 women in India are killed by their families and in-laws in disputes over dowries annually. More than 15,000 women will be sold as sexual slaves in China this year. 200 women in Bangladesh are horribly disfigured when their spurned husbands or suitors burn them with acids each year, according to former Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. The 2002 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe estimates that the leading cause of death worldwide among women ages 14-44 is the violence they are subjected to in their own homes. In the Russian Federation alone, every day 36,000 women are beaten by their husbands or partners. Even here, in United States, a woman is raped every six minutes, and a woman is battered every 15 seconds. 
   Mr. Speaker, these practices are contrary to international law. In 1998, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) issued a groundbreaking verdict with the successful prosecution of rape as a tool of genocide. Further prosecutions under the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) solidified rape as a crime of war and as the basis for prosecution for torture. Despite these ever evolving legal traditions, the rape of women continues to be used as an instrument of armed conflict in the 21st century. 
   In addition to rape, another persistent form of gender-based persecution is female genital mutilation. Despite existing laws forbidding this practice, this tradition is often embedded in cultural, religious, and non-medical practices, making it more difficult to overcome. Such traditions legitimize the exploitation of women for personal gratification and political gain. 
   The situation faced by women worldwide is intricately tied to a number of other issues that we have addressed in recent months in this Committee. Women and children are particularly affected by extreme poverty, which exacerbates the obstacles they face. Nearly 70 percent of those living in abject poverty are women, according to the United Nations, and, while women perform 2/3 of the world's work, they earn less than 5 percent of all income, and they own less than 1 percent of all property. The United Nations estimates that three out of every four illiterate adults in the world are women, and that two-thirds of children denied primary education are girls. 
   Mr. Speaker, democracy, political stability, and economic development are linked to the welfare of women and children. This Congress has announced its commitment to all three of these admirable goals, and I firmly believe that if we are truly dedicated to building and supporting stable, open, and prosperous societies throughout the world, we must work to eliminate these practices of serious persecution and discrimination. 
   Mr. Speaker, the time is long since passed for us to strongly declare that women are not chattel, should not be trafficked, nor sold for services, and must not be denied the right to own property. The fundamental rights to freedom of worship, expression, association, conscience and pursuit of happiness ought never to be threatened by violence, oppression, slavery, or manipulation. 
   My legislation denounces the barbaric practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, `honor' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths, and other gender-based persecutions. It demands the cessation of these barbaric practices and condemns the perpetrators. Regardless of religion, geography, or form of government, women should not be denied equal rights, which should be defended when their rights are abridged, challenged, or violated. 
   Mr. Speaker, Members of Congress, I strongly urge you to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DENOUNCING THE PRACTICES OF FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, ``HONOR'' KILLINGS, ACID BURNING, DOWRY DEATHS AND OTHER GENDER-BASED PERSECUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I am prepared to close at this time. 
   Let me thank my very generous friend Mr. Bilirakis from Florida for expressing the negotiations that occurred in the Foreign Affairs Committee and the spirit in which we work in that committee by coming together in a bipartisan way to make such an important statement today. 
   In closing, I would like to indicate that democracy, political stability, and economic development are linked to the welfare of our women and children. This Congress has announced its commitment to all three of these admirable goals, and I firmly believe that if  we are truly dedicated to building and supporting stable, open and prosperous societies throughout the world, we must work to eliminate these practices of serious persecution and discrimination. 
   The distinguished gentleman from Florida has indicated that we're doing this together. The time has long since passed for us to strongly declare that women are not chattel, should not be trafficked, and not sold for services and must not be denied the right to own property. The fundamental rights to freedom of worship, expression, association, conscience and pursuit of happiness ought never to be threatened by violence, oppression, slavery or manipulation. 
   My legislation denounces the barbaric practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, ``honor'' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths, and other gender-based persecutions. It gives women hope around the world. It demands a cessation of these barbaric practices and condemns the perpetrators. 
   I'm delighted to be supported by Amnesty International; the United Nations Women's Fund; the CARE, Council on American-Islamic Relations, equal rights advocates; and NOW. 
   I'm also delighted to be able to have this Congress express that regardless of religion, geography or form of government, women should not be denied equal rights, should have the opportunity to be defended when their rights are abridged, challenged or violated. 
   So, in the spirit of protecting the women around the world from the violence that they experience and suffer every day from the trafficking and from the inhumane treatment, I ask my colleagues to enthusiastically support H. Res. 32.  
   Amnesty International USA commends Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee and the U.S. House of Representatives for authoring and considering H. Res. 32 to denounce the practices of female genital mutilation, domestic violence, ``honor'' killings, acid burning, dowry deaths and other gender-based persecution and to urge participation, protection, recognition and independence of women. 
   Violence against women is a human rights scandal. At least one out of every three women has been beaten, coerced into sex, or otherwise abused in her lifetime. In Europe, domestic violence is the major cause of death and disability for women aged 16 to 44. In the United States, a woman is raped every 6 minutes; a woman is battered every 15 seconds. 
   Rape of women is widespread in armed conflicts such as in Colombia and Darfur. Trafficking of women has become a global phenomenon where victims are sexually exploited, forced into labor and subjected to abuse. 
   Murders of women in Guatemala, Russia, India, and other countries often go uninvestigated and unpunished. The experience or threat of violence affects the lives of women everywhere, cutting across boundaries of wealth, race and culture. In the home and in the community, in times of war and peace, women are beaten, raped, mutilated, and killed with impunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, parliamentary inquiry. 
   I am not sure everyone heard you. I would appreciate it, so the vote we just voted is clarified, would you please restate the vote and also indicate whether or not that was an overruling of the Chair? Would you restate it for the full body, please? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HAWAIIAN HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me, first of all, thank the gentlelady for being so timely in her yielding, and to congratulate her as well for this initiative. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to be allowed as well, as I compliment her overall on her commitment to housing, just to reflect on the last 2 days. This was a challenge, but it was the leadership of this Subcommittee on Financial Services that managed to get their  hands around what is confronting the gulf region, and particularly cities like Houston that are impacted by a large number of Hurricane Katrina survivors. And I just want to cite that, though I heard a good number of responses on the floor about how much, how long, and too much, frankly I am going to encourage all of the Members of this body to visit the gulf region and to recognize that no matter how much, too much and how long, they will see that people are still not settled, not in houses, and still are receiving eviction notices. 
   Homeownership is a viable part of our dreams. But, at the same time, we have to be the ``fix it'' people. And unfortunately, there was much debate on this floor that didn't understand that hurricane recovery for Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and Rita had not yet occurred. Therefore, I hope that as we go forward and more bills may come to the floor on dealing with Hurricane Katrina, we will be sensitive that this is one of the largest evacuations in the history of America, and that we must continue our work. And so for that reason, I support the underlying bill. 
   But, likewise, I hope that we will have a heart and recognize that we are, in fact, our brothers' and sisters' keeper, and that we will take some time to understand that we are still healing, we are still repairing, and we are still helping. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMPLOYMENT NON-DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Just on the underlying bill, every American deserves to have a nondiscriminatory workplace, and that means whoever you are, whatever faith, whatever sexual orientation, you deserve a nondiscriminatory workplace. 
   I rise to support this legislation and ask my statement to be put into the Record and to ensure that my constituents in Houston, Texas, can be free of discrimination in the workplace. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, because of the flood mapping crisis in Houston, Texas, and the need for flood control, let me add my appreciation and submit my statement for the Record in support of this legislation.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rise to speak in strong support of H.R. 2641, the ``Energy and Water Appropriations Act of 2007.'' I also rise to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Visclosky, the chairman of the Energy and Water Subcommittee and his ranking member, Mr. Hobson of Ohio, for working together in a constructive effort to renew America's dependence on foreign oil and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. 
   Moreover, this bill merits our support because it increases the Nation's commitment to long-term basic research by increasing the Federal investment that is so critical to developing the next generation of scientific breakthroughs. Federal funding for research and development has declined steadily over the last decade, and sound science has been compromised by political interference. This legislation takes a giant step toward reversing this disturbing trend. 
   Mr. Chairman, in the 1970s, our Nation faced an energy crisis unlike any we had ever experienced before. The OPEC oil embargo of 1973 led to skyrocketing prices, long gas lines, gas sales only every other day, and shortages where gas was simply unavailable. We experienced another oil shock in the late 1970s and under the leadership of President Jimmy Carter, America responded with unprecedented initiatives for energy research. But over the years, gas prices came down, incentive was lost, and these efforts fell by the wayside. 
   Today, we again face an energy crisis, only this time it is coupled with the enormous challenge of addressing the reality of global climate change. H.R. 2641 attempts to face these twin crises with over three billion dollars to address global climate change--researching its effects and working on technologies to slow it down--and investment in renewable energy programs that both reduce greenhouse gases and help our nation meet its energy needs. 
   The bill cuts funding for poorly thought-out plans for nuclear weapons recognizing that because of the enormous cost and the importance to our national security they require smart strategies not blank checks. Instead it works to keep Americans safe with a 75 percent increase in funding for nuclear nonproliferation efforts. It also funds the Army Corps of Engineers, strengthening our Nation's navigation infrastructure and improving flood control programs. 
   Before I highlight some of the more attractive provisions of this legislation, which by the way contains no earmarks, let me explain briefly why this energy and water legislation is so near and dear to the people I represent in the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas. 
   In the past 2 years, Houston, the center of my district, has experienced some of the most devastating acts of nature in its history. 
   Six years ago this month, in June 2001, Tropical Storm Allison hit southeast Texas. Until Hurricane Katrina, this storm would become the costliest tropical storm in United States history. Flash flooding initiated quite rapidly during Houston's rush hour late Friday afternoon and on into the evening hours. Widespread street flooding was the initial threat, but the high rainfall amounts forced almost all the major Houston area bayou systems into severe flooding, with some to record levels. All major freeways in the Houston area were severely flooded in at least one location during this event. During this single event alone, rainfall in Harris County ranged from just 2 inches in the extreme west to in excess of 20 inches over Green's Bayou in the east. Countywide, the average rainfall was 8 inches with over two-thirds of the county receiving over 10 inches. 
   The total damage across southeast Texas approached $5 billion, $4.88 billion in Harris County alone. Twenty-two deaths were caused by Allison, with each of these fatalities occurring in Harris County. At this time, thunderstorms began to train and merge across the Houston metro area, and the system evolved into a powerful complex right over the most populated portion of our CWA that evening. This complex progressed south and east into the early morning hours of Saturday, June 9. Very heavy rainfall was observed for up to 10 hours in some locations, and rainfall rates of 4 inches or more per hour were observed throughout the night. A station in northeast Houston recorded over 26 inches of rain in almost 10 hours. 
   In response, the Tropical Storm Allison Recovery Project was launched. TSARP is a joint study effort by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, and the Harris County Flood Control District, the District. The purpose of the TSARP project is to develop technical products that will assist the local community in recovery from the devastating flooding, and provide the community with a greater understanding of flooding and flood risks. The end product of the study is new flood insurance rate maps. 
   TSARP mission statement is: to assist residents of Harris County in recovery from Tropical Storm Allison and minimize damages from future floods by investigating the flood event and by developing current, accurate, and timely flood hazard information. 
   TSARP uses state-of-the-art technology. TSARP has yielded many products that will help us better understand our flood risk. These products will assist citizens in making important decisions, and will assist public agencies in infrastructure planning. The hoped for end result of TSARP is a more informed and disaster resistant community and one that is better prepared. 
   Purchasing flood insurance before June 18 allowed people to ``grandfather'' their existing floodplain status and pay lower premiums for flood insurance. Once the maps became official on June 18 residents and business owners whose properties are categorized in higher-risk flood zones on the new maps may pay higher rates. 
   According to FEMA, a ``Regulatory Floodway'' means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be 
   reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height. Communities must regulate development in these floodways to ensure that there are no increases in upstream flood elevations. For streams and other watercourses where FEMA has provided Base Flood Elevations, BFEs, but no floodway has been designated, the community must review floodplain development on a case-by-case basis to ensure that increases in water surface elevations do not occur, or identify the need to adopt a floodway if adequate information is available. 
   FEMA regulations say ``Communities must regulate development in these floodways to ensure that there are no increases in upstream flood elevations.'' The city of Houston interprets that as no development within the floodway. This is not necessarily correct. Construction can take place but it cannot obstruct the water. Elevating the structure gets the same effect but the city denies this as they said debris may collect under the structure. They will only allow a remodeling permit if the improvements do not exceed 50 percent of the structures value. 
   There is one neighborhood along White Oak Bayou that is greatly affected. The homes are of higher value than most of the district. Alternatives to resolve their issue include widening the bayou or diverting floodwater. 
   The Harris County Flood District is now investigating these alternatives. Otherwise the only solution would be a change in the city's ordinance allowing construction in the floodway. 
   I am looking forward to working with colleagues on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to explore ways and means of resolving this problem so that Houstonians will not be forced out of their homes and unable to afford flood insurance. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me provide this partial listing of some of the many good provisions in this legislation. First, H.R. 2641 will improve U.S. waterways and flood protection by increasing funding for the Army Corps of Engineers by $713.4 million above the President's request to address a $1 billion backlog of operations and needed maintenance. This backlog needs to be addressed to sustain the coastal and inland navigation infrastructure critical to the U.S. economy, and the gaps in flood protection highlighted in Hurricane Katrina. 
   Second, the legislation will help reduce dependence on foreign oil and cut greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy and energy efficiency programs are funded at $1.9 billion--a 50 percent increase in energy efficiency and renewable energy above the President's request for energy efficiency and renewable energy programs. This is in addition to the additional $300 million added in the FY 2007 joint resolution. In contrast, the President's FY 2008 request for renewable energy and energy efficiency research is the same as it was in 2001 in real terms. 
   Funding for research and development of alternative fuels such as corn based and cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel is increased by 40 percent above the President's request. Solar Energy demonstration projects receive a 34 percent increase above the President's request. There is also $22 million to research new ways of generating power from water flow, and $44.3 million for geothermal energy,  neither of which were funded in the President's request. This is on top of the $95 million for upgrades to existing hydropower dams funded under the Army Corps. 
   I could go on and on. This thoughtful legislation provides funding to invest in new vehicle technology; energy efficient buildings; weatherization; carbon capture and sequestration; and climate change science. And it cuts wasteful spending as well. 
   For example, H.R. 2641 directs the Energy Department to develop a concrete plan to improve its contract management. The Energy Department has been on the GAO list of programs that are at high-risk for waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement for 17 years in a row. 
   The bill also cuts Global Nuclear Energy Partnership, GNEP, funding by $285 million below the President's request and $47.5 million below 2007 for this initiative to reprocess spent nuclear fuel and burn long-lived radioactive materials. There are concerns that this project is unsafe, will cost tens of billions of dollars, and could make it far easier for terrorists to obtain plutonium to make nuclear weapons. 
   The bill also secures substantial savings by cutting wasteful and unnecessary nuclear weapons programs by $5.9 billion, $632 million below the President's request and $396 million below 2007. It cuts 37 specific weapons program accounts, including the Reliable Replacement Warhead program. The existing stockpile will continue to provide the Nation's nuclear deterrent for the next two decades, and certainly until the President develops a strategic nuclear weapons plan to transform the nuclear weapons complex away from its expensive cold war configuration to a more affordable, sustainable structure. 
    Mr. Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2641 and urge my colleagues to join me. I thank Chairman VISCLOSKY for his fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING JUNETEENTH -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am very humbled to be able to join my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus to celebrate and commemorate Juneteenth and to celebrate it on the very day that we have commemorated it over the years. 
   June 19 is a special time for Texans. And I would like to, in this very brief time that I have, weave in and out of the history of the meaning of Juneteenth as we reflect upon where we are in 2007 in the education of our young people. 
   The failures of this administration are stark, shocking, and extensive. And it is hopefully on this day that maybe a morsel of what many of us have been saying will be caught by someone in the administration to be able to reassess and to be able to think about the remaining time of their tenure in the White House and create a new and different legacy of the educational process of minorities in the United States of America. 
   With that, let me thank DANNY DAVIS for the celebration that we were able to participate in and his leadership on the issue of Juneteenth. I would also like to thank Curtis Faulkner of Fort Worth, who is involved in Juneteenth Heritage and Jazz Festival. I would also like to be able to thank Dr. Ronald Myers, who has been working for years with the National Juneteenth Observance. I would also like to be able to remind my fellow Texans and Houstonians of Reverend C. Anderson Davis, who brought to us the Emancipation Day celebration in Texas. We lost Reverend Davis just a few weeks  ago, and it is my special privilege to acknowledge him for he came as the regional leader of the NAACP more than four decades ago to Houston, Texas, and he never forgot the routing and the importance of educating our young people about the emancipation. 
   So I stand today to be able to chronicle the history and to thank those who are now fighting the battle to preserve Freedman's Town in Houston, Texas, a town that was formulated by freed slaves right after the Emancipation Proclamation that is now under siege by those who would desire to disrupt the few remaining historic buildings and blocks and, if you will, bricks that make up the street, cobblestone bricks. I pray that the energy of those remaining, Reverend Samuel Smith, Captain Roberts, Reverend Robertson, will hold on, and the number of churches that are in that area, that we will fight for the establishment of a Freedman's Town corridor in the name and in tribute of Juneteenth and the emancipation of our people. 
   Let me cite for those a depictive picture that shows both celebration and shock as Major Gordon Granger came into Galveston to be able to announce that these yet humble servants, these slaves, were yet free. 
   Let me quickly go to the language that was offered to me in remarks made by Curtis Faulkner. I want to read, first of all, just a few brief words from the message of Abraham Lincoln during the emancipation: ``Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance, or insignificance, can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the latest generation. We say we are for the union. The world will not forget that we say this.'' 
   So he spoke of saving the union, but he also laid the ground work for the Emancipation Proclamation. 
   He continued: ``Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just--a way which, if followed, the world will forever applaud and God must forever bless.'' 
   This was the genesis of the emancipation of slaves, but yet we are still wracked by discrimination and disparity. So when I speak of education and No Child Left Behind, I use Houston as an additional laboratory, testing the fear of children and not the learning of children. We want to reform so that all of our children can learn. Poor funding for underperforming schools, a failure of this administration that never decided to fund. Closing schools, lack of pay for teachers, all of that is meaningful. 
   I close, Mr. Speaker, by saying this. Freedom is not enough and you do not wipe away the scars of centuries by saying now you are free. We want the emancipation to be known in our hearts. We want a national holiday for the Juneteenth. And I look forward to working with my colleagues to commemorate, celebrate, and be reminded of the sweat and blood and tears of those who stand here today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY AND WATER -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we have been engaging in discussion on the appropriations regarding the Energy and Water bill. Much of our attention has been on the gas prices, which is clearly a key element of need for the American people. I believe that when we finish this bill, we will have a strong and positive response. 
   But at the same time, water is a concern for the American people as well. Flooding is a concern for the American people as well. I use as an example the City of Houston, Texas, that has just received the flood mapping that goes on under the process of FEMA, meaning that they have described areas of residential housing where the maps are changing what is a flooding area and what is not. 
   The tragedy for Houston is that these are older neighborhoods where Members of the community have invested in one of their major assets. Unfortunately, based upon FEMA's maps and the lack of infrastructure as it relates to water and flooding, these individuals are finding themselves without the opportunity to protect their property. We have got to change that. We have got to make a difference. I look forward to working with my constituents to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished chairman and I thank the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee and the ranking member of the subcommittee. Let me thank both of the individuals, the chairperson, Mr. Olver, and the ranking member, Mr. Knollenberg, for their leadership. I thank you so very much. 
   We've worked on this issue in the past, and I think many of us are aware of the surrounding neighborhoods around large airports, and I know that as Members of Congress we have been challenged by that because we recognize that the vitality of airports certainly support the economy of our cities. 
   I happen to represent a very large airport in Houston, Texas, and I also represent the neighborhoods that surround it. At this time, of course, we are working on a number of noise studies in our area, and it is a continuing journey as our airport continues to expand. Sometimes it takes money but sometimes it takes policy. 
   We recognize that one of the advantages of modern life is the convenience of air travel. America's air transportation system is the best and safest in the world, but airports are not quiet. If you ask any resident that lives near a busy airport, you will hear many grievances about the noise level. 
   Although there is no way to make airports soundproof, it is possible to reduce airport noise so it is less disruptive to the lives of the families that live near some of the Nation's busiest airports who work and pay their taxes. 
   Mr. Chairman, the purpose of my amendment is to encourage the Federal Aviation Administration to be more proactive in helping communities reduce, eliminate or cope with the ever increasing levels of airport noise. 
   Specifically, I call upon the FAA to undertake a nationwide study of airport mitigation problems and best practices at the 10 busiest airports in America and report its findings, along with recommendations to address major problems found to be existing, to the Congress within 180 days.     
   Under the airport improvement program administered by the FAA, grants are available to airports and local governments to fund noise reduction projects located in areas significantly affected by airport noise above 65 decibels over a 24-hour average, as indicated by the notation 65 dB(A) DNL. Noise mitigation grants are generally not available for areas in which the noise level may be substantial, but does not exceed 65. 
   Please, all of you, join me in those surrounding neighborhoods, and try to be able to resolve or to be able to accept the noise at that level. Therefore, money does not solve the problem; policy does. So we would like to ensure that we have the real information opportunity to determine the impact, substantial impacts that occurred to millions of people well below the 65 decibel level. 
   Information generates policy. This value is inadequate for several reasons. We find from the scientific perspective, it is not supported by research. The 65 decibel level is derived from the Schultz curve, which correlated people reporting being highly annoyed by noise with noise levels. Substantial impact occurs well before people become highly annoyed. In addition, the data used in the Schultz curve for airports show that highly annoyed occurs around 57 decibels, not 65. That comes from the Journal of Acoustical Society of America. 
   The EPA has identified 55 dB(A) DNL as a more appropriate noise level. The day-night average sound level is the level of noise expressed in decibels as a 24-hour average, and averages do not adequately account for the impact of aircraft noise on individuals. 
   Research has shown that the noise disruption as low as 55 decibels can negatively affect communities near airports. Our airports are trying. In my own district, we have had several meetings. I know that this issue is a concern, because we have addressed this question in airports and cities around the Nation, including the State of Minnesota. 
   It is important to stress that this amendment does not entitle any airport, local government or other eligible entity, to receive a noise mitigation grant, nor does it have any financial impact that reduces funding in noise mitigation. This amendment provides for an opportunity for focusing on the issue of noise mitigation and the difficulty of using a singular number, 65, while communities around the Nation suffer. 
   We are going to continue to pursue this. We have done this every year to bring attention to this problem of noise mitigation and the fact that no person who lives in and around an airport acknowledges the fact that the airport is not important, but what we are trying to emphasize is that we must provide solace for those who live surrounding airports. 
   I ask my colleagues to support my amendment.  
   Mr. Chairman, sometimes it takes money, but sometimes it takes policy. We recognize that one of the advantages of modern life is the convenience of air travel. America's air transportation system is the best and safest in the world, but airports are not quiet. If you ask any resident that lives near a busy airport, you will hear many grievances about the noise level. 
   Although there is no way to make airports soundproof, it is possible to reduce airport noise so it is less disruptive to the lives of the families that live near some of the Nation's busiest airports, work and pay their taxes. 
   Mr. Chairman, the purpose of my amendment is to encourage the Federal Aviation Administration to be more proactive in helping communities reduce, eliminate, or cope with ever-increasing levels of airport noise. Specifically, I call upon the FAA to undertake a nationwide study of airport noise mitigation problems and best practices at the 10 busiest airports in America and report its findings, along with recommendations to address major problems found, to the Congress within 180 days. 
   Mr. Chairman, under the Airport Improvement Program administered by the FAA, grants are available to airports and local governments to fund noise reduction projects located in areas significantly affected by airport noise above 65 decibels over a 24-hour average, as indicated by the notation 65 dB(A) DNL. Noise mitigation grants are generally not available for areas in which the noise level may be substantial but does not exceed the 65 dB(A) DNL. Thereby money does not solve the problem; policy does. 
   However, substantial impacts occur to millions of people well below the 65 decibel level. This value is inadequate for several reasons: 
   From a scientific perspective, it is not supported by research. The 65 decibel level is derived from the Schultz Curve which correlated people reporting being highly annoyed by noise with noise levels. 
   Substantial impact occurs well before people become highly annoyed. In addition, the data used in the Schultz Curve for airports shows that ``highly annoyed'' occurs around 57 decibels, not 65, and that comes from a Journal of the Acoustical Society of America. 
   The EPA has identified 55 dB(A) DNL as a more appropriate noise level. The day/night average sound level is the level of noise expressed in decibels as a 24-hour average, and averages do not adequately account for the impacts of aircraft noise on individuals. 
   Research has shown that noise disruption as low as 55 decibels can negatively affect communities near airports. Unfortunately, communities that have a dB(A) less than 65 are precluded from applying for an Airport Improvement Program grant to reduce airport noise. We need to help them. I have even  heard from cities in Minnesota. It is all over the country. 
   It is important to stress that this amendment does not entitle any airport, local government or other eligible entity to receive a noise mitigation grant. Nor does it have any financial impact. This amendment does not even affect an applicant's eligibility to be considered for an airport noise reduction grant. Each applicant must demonstrate that its proposed project deserves to be funded, but no applicant can be disqualified from consideration merely because the area covered by the grant request does not have a dB(A) DNL greater than 65. 
   Mr. Chairman, communities coexisting with major airports is one of the great challenges of modern life. My amendment is intended to help us rise to that challenge. 
   I urge all members to support my amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the two subcommittee Chairs. Might I just for a moment thank them for a bill that is enormously challenging, transportation and housing. 
   I want to thank the staff for their very hard work and the commitment that this particular bill has in place as it relates to the Treasury and other agencies. Let me acknowledge the importance of hard work as well. 
   Mr. Chairman, we can't do without the workers that provide the engine of our economy. If we are to appreciate workers, I think it is extremely important that we do not have outside forces that would, in fact, take away from the dignity and the responsibility to the American worker; and that's what my amendment is about. 
   It is a very simple amendment. It is sometimes fashionable to speak ill about working Americans who are in unions. This amendment simply provides support for union workers on federally funded projects, simple without any additions to it. It is to reinforce the importance of that work and to reinforce the importance of those workers. 
   I believe that the engine of America is fused by American workers, and many of them are both union and nonunion workers. I stand today to affirm all workers. My amendment simply asks that those Federal funds that are utilized, nothing is done in the federally funded project to undermine America's workers. 
   I believe that we have had a long history of the American labor movement. It was started by a group of dreamers who simply believed that we should have the best working atmosphere for America's workers. Employees represented by free and democratic unions of their own choosing participate actively in determining their wages, hours and working conditions. 
   Their living standards are the highest in the world. Their job rights are protected by collective bargaining. They have fringe benefits that were unheard of less than a generation ago. 
   I know that the support of these workers is bipartisan. I ask my colleagues to join me in a very simple amendment that ensures that these projects that are federally funded comply with the law, simply comply with the law, and do not undermine the working people of America. 
   I ask my colleagues to support working people, working people of America, as we issue Federal funds so that they can be protected.  
   My amendment is simple but makes an important contribution to the legislation. My amendment simply provides that none of the funds made available in this appropriations bill shall be used in a manner inconsistent with the National Labor Relations Act. 
   Mr. Chairman, I know it is fashionable today to disparage, downplay, or minimize the importance of organized labor to our country. That is easy to do but it would be wrong. In the post 9-11 age, where our transportation systems and infrastructure have been demonstrated to be targets of those who would do us harm, it is more important than ever that those who work in the transportation sectors are the best, most able, most professional, most experienced, and committed workers this nation has to offer. To do otherwise would put the security of our nation at risk. 
   Mr. Chairman, those who would destroy or further limit the rights of organized labor--those who would cripple collective bargaining or prevent organization of the unorganized--do a disservice to the cause of democracy. 
   Fifty years or so ago the American Labor Movement was little more than a group of dreamers, and look at it now. From coast to coast, in factories, stores, warehouse and business establishments of all kinds, industrial democracy is at work. 
   Employees, represented by free and democratic trade unions of their own choosing, participate actively in determining their wages, hours and working conditions. Their living standards are the highest in the world. Their job rights are protected by collective bargaining agreements. They have fringe benefits that were unheard of less than a generation ago. 
   Our labor unions are not narrow, self-seeking groups. They have raised wages, shortened hours and provided supplemental benefits. Through collective bargaining and grievance procedures, they have brought justice and democracy to the shop floor. But their work goes beyond their own jobs, and even beyond our borders. 
   Our unions have fought for aid to education, for better housing, for development of our national resources, and for saving the family-sized farms. They have spoken, not for narrow self-interest, but for the public interest and for the people. 
   Mr. Chairman, unions are as important as they ever were--because corporations are just as dedicated to their bottom line, regardless of the consequences for workers. The nature of work in America is changing. Employers are trying to shed responsibilities--for providing health insurance, good pension coverage, reasonable work hours and job safety protections, for example--while making workers' jobs and incomes less secure through downsizing, part- timing and contracting out. Working people need a voice at work to keep employers from making our jobs look like they did 100 years ago, with sweatshop conditions, unlivable wages and 70-hour workweeks. 
   In my hometown of Houston, I know firsthand the commitment, dedication, and professionalism of organized transit workers employed by the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO). These workers are making the transportation system of Houston one of the best in the nation. Accordingly, I want to take this opportunity to extol their accomplishments and to express my commitment to the protection of their hard won right to engage in and enjoy the benefits of collective bargaining. I think most of my colleagues can agree that these hard won rights should not be taken away or undermined, and my amendment reaffirms this proposition. 
   And lest we forget, Mr. Chairman, it was the men and women of organized labor who rushed into the burning World Trade Center Towers when others were rushing out. The men and women of organized labor put their lives on the line for their fellow Americans every day. They do not ask for much. All they ask is to be treated with respect and dignity. They want what we all want: to do their jobs and to make a better life for their families.  
   The least we in the Congress can do, Mr. Chairman, is to go on record in support of our working men and women in the vitally important transportation industries of our country. We can and should affirm that none of the funds made available in this appropriations bill shall be used in a manner that undercuts the hard won rights of American workers that are reflected in the National Labor Relations Act and other important federal labor laws. 
   I urge all members to support my amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I think you might have misheard me. I think I indicated that in the past amendment I asked for a report from the FAA. 
   My concern here is simply a statement of affirmation that federally funded projects protect the workers that are on those projects and protect those who may be associated with the union. I don't believe that we asked for a study. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I am grateful that the gentleman from Iowa raised the question, if you would, because I do want to reinforce what the amendment says. 
   The amendment specifically says, with respect to workers on federally funded transportation projects. So your sensitivity is clarified by the amendment. 
   As I indicated in my remarks, I am affirming all workers, labor and union and nonunion. It is a generic term. I want to make sure that we treat workers on federally funded projects fairly and balanced, and that they are not diminished if they are on federally funded projects. We have many individuals who work after the project is finished, and I want to make sure that they are protected as well, union and nonunion. 
   The amendment is simply a straightforward affirmation of the protection of workers on federally funded transportation projects. 
   With that in mind, I would ask my colleagues to affirm the importance of protecting workers on federally funded transportation projects, under section A of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935. 
   With that, I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment. I thank the gentleman for yielding to me. I would hope that my colleagues would see this as an affirming amendment of all American workers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I have two amendments that I would like to subsequently withdraw. I would like them taken en bloc. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Without objection, the amendments will be considered en bloc. 
   There was no objection. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Without objection, the Clerk will report the amendments. 
   There was no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. It is my intent to withdraw both of these amendments, and I will just briefly describe my intent to continue to work with authorizers on these two very vital points. 
   We have firsthand experience with the tragedy of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and many of the constituents in my congressional district are alumni of trailers, the same trailers that have proved to be dangerous and unhelpful and unuseful. I hope that we will continue to work with the relevant agencies to look at alternative technology for housing so that in our future disasters, we can be able to work effectively. There has been effective legislation moving on this issue, and I know that the many constituents that are impacted by poor housing will welcome this Congress continuing to work on that particular issue. 
   I move quickly to the question of security and safety on the question of transportation workers who drive a number of transportation vehicles throughout America. In many instances, in my own hometown of Houston, these very transportation workers, particularly bus drivers, do not have the necessary safety equipment such as walkie-talkies, such as two-way radios, such as other handheld communication devices. I will look forward to working with the appropriate committees to address the question of these particular workers who are begging for relief. A recent tragedy in Houston with an assault on a bus driver brought this particular issue to a head. We look forward to working with the various committee Chairs on trying to bring some  response to those transportation workers across America driving transportation vehicles. 
   I ask for unanimous consent to withdraw the two amendments that have been placed pending on the record, to withdraw both amendments. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Without objection, the en bloc amendments are withdrawn. 
   There was no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman for having the wisdom to bring this legislation up. 
   If you look at my State, you will see that Texas is just a smidgeon below turning red, and not on politics, but on the numbers of individuals unemployed. 
   As was indicated, we just voted on an emergency stimulus package on which I originally voted no. But looking at these numbers, having my car dealerships call me and tell me about the freezing of credit, with great difficulty I voted yes. But today is an acknowledgement that we are in crisis. 159,000 people today are unemployed, making a total of 759,000 people. 
   This emergency stimulus package or this emergency rescue package has got to focus on Mr. and Mrs. America. That is what the extension of unemployment benefits represents, so that Ms. Jackson in my district who has a high adjusted mortgage rate can still keep her job. We have got to keep her job and keep a house. And that is what my vote was today on the rescue package. That is why I am supporting these extenders, because we have got a crisis, folks. And this party, this Democratic Congress, this new President must address this question.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6867, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act introduced by Congressman McDermott of Washington. 
   BACKGROUND 
   On June 30, 2008, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC08) program was created by Public Law 110-252. This new temporary unemployment insurance program provided up to 13 additional weeks of unemployment benefits to certain workers who had exhausted their rights to regular unemployment compensation (UC) benefits. 
   Unfortunately, over 1 million workers have joined the ranks of the unemployed since Congress enacted the Extended Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program in June, and over 800,000 workers are projected to exhaust their current extended benefits if we do not act now. 
   Hurricanes Rita, Gustav, and Ike have wreaked havoc on the gulf coast, and in my district of Houston, Texas I have seen people with out food and water. This devastation has also clearly affected the job market and has forced many hardworking Houstonians into the unemployment lines. 
   GENERAL--STATISTICS 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank the chairman of Financial Services BARNEY FRANK for bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor. I rise today with the confidence that our system of government is strong and the constitutional protections of the full faith and credit of our government must protect Main Street America while we reform America's Wall Street. 
   Many have claimed that this is a historic vote. Historic votes are not ubiquitous. Historic votes come about through necessity and not through the failures of people. This problem has persisted for a while and now Congress must rush before the recess to a vote. While I would have liked more time, time has seemingly run out.  
   I would begin by saying that I had concerns about the bill that was presented to the Congress on Monday. After much deliberation and a return visit to my district, I vote ``yes'' for this bill. Given these dire economic times, it is the responsible thing to do to vote ``yes'' when the mass of Americans are suffering. 
   Let me give you a picture of the tough economic times which face Americans. The economy is shredding jobs. The U.S. economy has lost jobs in every single month of 2008. In September, the economy suffered its biggest 1-month job loss,-159,000, in over 5 years. In total, the economy has shed 760,000 jobs since the beginning of the year. 
   Poor labor markets are significantly increasing unemployment. Within the past year, the number of unemployed Americans has increased by 2.2. million. In September, there were 9.5 million unemployed workers, keeping the unemployment rate at a 5-year high of 6.1 percent. Thus, it has become harder for Americans to find jobs. 
   The economy is faced with credit crunches. Individuals have found it difficult to get first or second mortgages, credit, credit cards, and loans, including student loans. Because of the compendium of these economic concerns, coupled with the drying up of the credit market, I have changed my vote from a few days ago from a ``no'' to a ``yes.'' I changed my vote because of my concern for the well-being of the American people. 
   The first three articles of the United States Constitution address the three branches of Government and their enumerated powers. These Articles govern the legislature, the executive, and the judicial branches. Because there is no specific grant of constitutional authority for the actions that will be taking place here today, we the Members of Congress need to exercise oversight over the powers and actions of the executive. Should the executive or its agencies exceed the powers granted to it in the Constitution, the judicial can review the determinations made by the executive and the legislative branches. These concepts are fundamental to our Constitution and our system of constitutional checks and balances. These checks and balances were established by the Founding Fathers to reign in the unbridled power of the executive. 
   Today we are engaged in a fundamental exercise of the constitutional powers extended to the Congress. Today's vote is critically important. 
   Several questions come to mind when I consider the present financial crisis: Where was the FDIC? Where was the SEC? Where was the Federal Reserve? 
   I have worked with leadership to offer consistent amendments, not once but twice unsuccessfully, that would have strengthened the enforcement measures over the past week to change the administration's proposal to make it more encompassing, effective, and better for the American people. 
   While the present legislation is impressive, it is also impressive regarding what needs clarification in the present legislation. For example, the legislation needs clarification on its bankruptcy restructuring, enforcement, and judicial review. These are all issues that I have been very concerned about. 
   Because I am concerned and desire that the maximum number of Americans get relief from this bill, I offered amendments yesterday. To ensure that this bill provides relief for Americans, I offered the following amendments: 
   First, many are concerned about the dollar amount that will be set aside for those individuals facing mortgage foreclosure. Therefore, I asked that language be inserted into the bill so that $10 billion be utilized for the Secretary of the Treasury to restructure mortgages. 
   Second, as Senator BARACK OBAMA has recently stated, he is committed to altering the bankruptcy code in the future to assist homeowners on the question of restructuring their mortgages. Therefore, I believe that there should have been Sense of Congress language that the Congress should review and amend the bankruptcy code to permit bankruptcy judges to address the question of individual home mortgage restructuring. This would have sent a clear message that Congress is interested in helping Americans pay off their debt despite its not changing the bankruptcy code at this time. 
   Third, there needs to be greater enforcement. In the section on judicial review, Section 119, there should have been language that specifically states that ``the courts should be able to exercise their discretion to grant injunctive and/or equitable relief if the court determines that such relief would not destabilize financial markets.'' 
   Fourth, the legislation should have created a new, independent commission to exercise oversight over what happened and the commission should regularly provide reports to Congress. This commission would be backward looking. 
   Fifth, the legislation should have been narrowly crafted so that corporate executives who may be convicted of criminal malfeasance in the financial sector might be barred from conducting financial business with the Government for a period of 7 years. 
   Sixth, the legislation should have permanently lifted the present insurance cap of $100,000 that the FDIC has established to insure funds stored in FDIC-backed banking institutions to $250,000. I believe that this has already been included in the Senate bill; but, my amendment would have made the change permanent. 
   Seventh, in section 109, which addresses ``foreclosure mitigation efforts,'' the language should be changed from ``shall encourage'' to ``shall require'' to provide stronger relief for Americans. 
   Specifically, current section 109(a) states in pertinent part that ``the Secretary shall implement a plan that seeks to maximize assistance for homeowners and use the authority of the Secretary to encourage the servicers of the underlying mortgages ..... to minimize foreclosures.'' I believe if the true intent is to bailout ``Main Street,'' the Secretary should be ``required'' to minimize foreclosures. 
   There are certain redeeming qualities to the bill. 
   I understand that H.R. 1424 establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Board in section 104; Oversight and Audits in section 116; and a Congressional Oversight Panel in section 125. Therefore, these sections provide some oversight over the financial crisis and help to add one piece to the economic puzzle. 
   Without bankruptcy I offered an amendment that $10 billion should be set aside so that the Department of Treasury could use those funds to address the question of individuals facing home mortgage foreclosure. I considered it important to set aside money because I wanted to ensure that Main Street received something from this bailout and not just Wall Street. 
   The administration has labeled the current economic situation as a crisis that requires emergency measures. Our vote today in favor of the legislation is a first attempt at addressing these dire economic times. 
   Above all, my concern is to ensure that the American people receive the relief that they deserve. If the American people are facing mortgage foreclosure, it is my desire that monies be provided to them so that they can continue to stay in their home and pay their mortgages and their bills. Everyone deserves the economic dream of owning their own home. But the financial institutions were dilatory in their responsibility to assess the borrower's ability to pay for loans and purchase a home. It was the squandering of this responsibility and preoccupation with greed and avarice that has led us to where we are today. I am not satisfied that this bill is perfect, but this bill does allow Treasury to buy toxic assets from financial institutions, including our small and community banks. Once these toxic assets are purchased, the Treasury should be encouraged to restructure loans that are in foreclosure. This is indeed encouraging news. 
   There are substantial improvements in the present version of the bill compared to the Bush administration proposal. However, the bill as it is presently written, in my view needs some clarification as to how it provides the necessary relief to middle-class America. There are provisions now that address accountability measures by requiring a plan to ensure the taxpayer is repaid in full, and requiring congressional review after the first $350 billion for future payments. 
   Principally, there are three phases of a financial rescue with strong taxpayer protections: reinvest, reimburse, and reform. One of the phases is to reinvest in the troubled financial markets to stabilize the markets. Another, reimburses the taxpayer and requires a plan to guarantee that they will be repaid in full. The last is to reform how business is done on Wall Street. The current legislation provides for fewer golden parachutes and, to its credit, provides sweeping congressional oversight. 
   There are critical improvements to the rescue plan that yield greater protection to the American taxpayers and even to Main Street. However, with the passage of this bill, it is my hope that H.R. 1424 will help the financial markets and make America secured. I am cautious and hopeful that there is enough in the bill to help Americans struggling with their mortgages. 
   Although I have certain lingering concerns regarding this bill, I have voted for this bill. After meeting with an Assistant Secretary for the Treasury, some of my concerns were answered; others remained. For example, the Assistant Secretary indicated Treasury's intervention in the markets will afford it the opportunity to purchase toxic assets. After Treasury purchases these toxic assets at fair market value, it is expected that the purchase price will set a marker so that other similar classes of assets will be purchased at the same or higher price level. This is a positive development for banks and financial institutions to recapitalize themselves. By itself this would be a help to commercial banks that desire to sell off their toxic assets. 
   In my conversation with the Assistant Secretary, he indicated that as time goes on, Treasury will develop guidelines for identifying and helping troubled small and community  banks. It is intended that small and community banks and small, women, and minority-owned businesses will all be aided by this legislation. These latter institutions will be aided because it is expected that there will be more liquidity in the market available to these entities and that more credit can be extended to them. 
   Lastly, the Assistant Secretary indicated that under sections 109 and 110, that Treasury has every incentive to renegotiate the terms of troubled mortgages. Importantly, the Assistant Secretary indicated that not all homeowners who are facing mortgage foreclosure will be helped. The goal, however, is to help as many Americans as possible. 
   I have drafted a letter to Chairman Frank of Financial Services, and I have raised several questions to which I would like answers. 
   First, I have asked Chairman Frank that should something go wrong with this bailout, whether Congress can be called to reconvene at any time before or after the election. 
   Second, I have asked Chairman Frank to share the constitutional grant of authority that would prevent the Secretary of Treasury from having unfettered power so that there will be a balance between the interests of the banks and individual homeowners. 
   Third, I have asked Chairman Frank what members of Congress can expect in the 111th Congress regarding follow-up on this bill and the financial situation generally. 
   Fourth, I have asked Chairman Frank to answer how members can ensure that community and regional banks can take advantage of this bill. 
   These are critical questions that need to be answered. 
   I believe that Wall Street is an important and vital part of the Nation's economy. I believe that the people who work there are good. It is a well known fact that financial markets do not always serve small businesses and minorities. I have personally had experiences where good hardworking people and small business owners were denied access to financial markets. 
   I believe in America and I believe in its Constitution. I believe that this bill would allow constant monitoring and vigilance and would help the American people. 
   I am reminded of the Preamble to our Constitution, which reads: 
   ``We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.'' 
   I would like to end with a quote from Alexander Hamilton: ``the sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for, among old parchments, or musty records. They are written, as with a sun beam in the whole volume of human nature, by the hand of the divinity itself and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power.'' 
   I hope that this legislation will provide the American people with the sun beam. It is my hope that this legislation works and that it serves the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank the chairman of financial services Barney Frank  for bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor. I also rise with a sense of the solemnity of this moment. However, I rise today with the confidence that our system of government is strong and the constitutional protections of the full faith and credit of our government must protect Main Street America while we reform America's Wall Street. 
   The first three articles of the United States Constitution address the three branches of government and their enumerated powers. These articles govern the legislature, the executive, and the judicial branches. Because there is no specific grant of constitutional authority for the actions that will be taking place here today, we the members of Congress need to exercise oversight over the powers and actions of the executive. Should the executive or its agencies exceed the powers granted to it in the Constitution, the judicial can review the determinations made by the executive and the legislative branches. These concepts are fundamental to our Constitution and our system of constitutional checks and balances. These checks and balances were established by the Founding Fathers to reign in the unbridled power of the executive. 
   Today we are engaged in a fundamental exercise of the constitutional powers extended to the Congress. Today's vote is critically important. 
   Several questions come to mind when I consider the present financial crisis: 
   Where was the FDIC? 
   Where was the SEC? 
   Where was the Federal Reserve? 
   I have worked with leadership to offer consistent amendments, not once but twice unsuccessfully, that would have strengthened the enforcement measures over the past week to change the Administration's proposal to make it more encompassing, effective, and better for the American people. While the present legislation is impressive, it is also impressive regarding what needs clarification in the present legislation. For example, the legislation needs clarification on its bankruptcy restructuring; enforcement; and judicial review. These are all issues that I have been very concerned about. 
   Because I am concerned and desire that the maximum number of Americans get relief from this bill, I offered amendments yesterday. To ensure that this bill provides relief for Americans, I offered the following amendments: 
   First, many are concerned about the dollar amount that will be set aside for those individuals facing mortgage foreclosure. Therefore, I asked that language be inserted into the bill so that $10 billion be utilized for the Secretary of the Treasury to restructure mortgages. 
   Second, as Senator Barack Obama has recently stated, he is committed to altering the Bankruptcy Code in the future to assist homeowners on the question of restructuring their mortgages. Therefore, I believe that there should have been Sense of Congress language that the Congress should review and amend the Bankruptcy Code to permit bankruptcy judges to address the question of individual home mortgage restructuring. This would have sent a clear message that 
   Congress is interested in helping Americans pay off their debt despite its not changing the Bankruptcy Code at this time. 
   Third, there needs to be greater enforcement. In the section on judicial review (section 119), there should have been language that specifically states that ``the courts should be able to exercise their discretion to grant injunctive and/or equitable relief if the court determines that such relief would not destabilize financial markets.'' 
   Fourth, the legislation should have created a new, independent commission to exercise oversight over what happened and the commission should regularly provide reports to Congress. This Commission would be backward looking. 
   Fifth, the legislation should have been narrowly crafted so that corporate executives who may be convicted of criminal malfeasance in the financial sector might be barred from conducting financial business with the government for a period of seven (7) years. 
   Sixth, the legislation should have permanently lifted the present insurance cap of $100,000 that the FDIC has established to insure funds stored in FDIC-backed banking institutions to $250,000. I believe that this has already been included in the Senate bill; but, my amendment would have made the change permanent. 
   Eighth, in section 109, which addresses ``foreclosure mitigation efforts,'' the language should be changed from ``shall encourage'' to ``shall require'' to provide stronger relief for Americans. 
   Specifically, current section 109(a) states in pertinent part that ``the Secretary shall implement a plan that seeks to maximize assistance for homeowners and use the authority of the Secretary to encourage the servicers of the underlying mortgages ..... to minimize foreclosures.'' I believe if the true intent is to bailout ``Main Street,'' the Secretary should be ``required'' to minimize foreclosures. 
   Can you clarify how this legislation has any enforcement? I understand that H.R. 1424 establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Board in section 104; Oversight and Audits in section 116; and a Congressional Oversight Panel in section 125. However, none of these sections appear to provide penalties or sanctions for non-compliance. 
   I intend to have the following questions answered:   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Without bankruptcy I offered an amendment that $10 billion dollars should be set aside so that the Department of Treasury could use those funds to address the question of individuals facing home mortgage foreclosure. I considered it important to set aside money because I wanted to ensure that Main Street received something from this bailout and not just Wall Street. Can you explain what provisions  in the bill would ensure that the monies are spent on persons in mortgage foreclosure? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Above all, my concern is to ensure that the American people receive the relief that they deserve. If the American people are facing mortgage foreclosure, it is my desire that monies be provided to them so that they can continue to stay in their home and pay their mortgages and their bills. Everyone deserves the economic dream of owning their own home. But the financial institutions were dilatory in their responsibility to assess the borrower's ability to pay for loans and purchase a home. It was the squandering of this responsibility and preoccupation with greed and avarice that has led us to where we are today. 
   There are substantial improvements in the present version of the bill compared to the Bush administration proposal. However, the bill as it is presently written, in my view needs some clarification as to how it provides the necessary relief to middle-class America. Frankly, the bill provides no panacea to our present economic woes. Our markets will have the full faith and credit of the United States. 
   There are provisions now that address accountability measures by requiring a plan to ensure the taxpayer is repaid in full, and requiring Congressional review after the first $350 billion for future payments. 
   Principally, there are three phases of a financial rescue with strong taxpayer protections: reinvest, reimburse, and reform. One of the phases is to re-invest in the troubled financial markets to stabilize the markets. Another, reimburses the taxpayer and requires a plan to guarantee that they will be repaid in full. The last is to reform how business is done on Wall Street. The current legislation provides for fewer golden parachutes and, to its credit, provides sweeping Congressional oversight. 
   There are critical improvements to the rescue plan that yield greater protection to the American taxpayers and even to Main Street. However, with a ``pause'' we can help the financial markets and make America secure. I still have concern that there is enough in the bill to help Americans struggling with their mortgages. Is there some bright hope you can share with me to relieve me of my anxiety? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Chairman Frank, on many occasions, you have reiterated the concern of the American people, which we both share, the wish that this legislation had stronger and more comprehensive relief for home owners facing foreclosures. Please elaborate on your interest, willingness, and commitment for us to work together to introduce and pass stronger and more comprehensive housing foreclosure legislation in the next Congress? 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, to you and your staff, for your commitment to this issue.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 1424, EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. 
   We are here to do the people's business. That business must be done in the context of the Constitution. And so I will support this rule, but I will raise a number of questions dealing with the constitutional protections of Americans, the restraining of the power of the Secretary of the Treasury, the understanding of this body being called back to be able to immediately respond if the irresponsible actions of this administration continue with the monies that may be given through the passing of this bill. 
   I tried to put more structure into the bill by giving $10 billion in amendments, $10 billion just for mortgages  for people who want to restructure. We talked about bankruptcy language that should have been put in that I offered; we talked about making it stronger and how you restructure the mortgages, rather than encourage them to restructure the mortgage, requiring them to do it. I had language that would address the question of making sure the courts were stronger, that courts had the ability to render equitable or injunctive relief. I also had an amendment to give us a 9/11-type commission, criminal liability. We tried to make the bill better, but we are going to work through this process. 
   I am going to watch this process, and determine whether or not we can do the people's business. That is what I think is important.  
   Madam Speaker, thank you for the opportunity to speak before you today on H. Res. 1525, providing for consideration of the rule on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. I want to begin by stating that I worked very hard. I worked hard to make this bill better. I will be listening intently to the debate throughout the day to establish the perspective and the legislative history we need for my constituents, the State of Texas, and for all of America. 
   I offered several amendments to make the Act better. 
   The first amendment that I would like to offer sets aside $10 billion as a firm allotment to address the question of individual American homeowners facing foreclosure in light of the absence of a bankruptcy provision in the bill. I believe that the amount in reality should be higher; however, $10 billion is a good starting point. 
   This provision is important because the American people that are currently in mortgage foreclosure are facing a real and present crisis. Indeed, these are tough economic times. This money can be given to them by the Secretary of Treasury. This is a modest attempt at addressing the present crisis and it ensures that those on Main Street get the relief that they long deserve. 
   The second amendment that I would like to offer permits bankruptcy judges to allow persons in default of their mortgage on their primary residence to alter the terms of their mortgage. As Senator Barack Obama has recently stated, he is committed to altering the Bankruptcy Code in the future to assist homeowners on the question of restructuring their mortgages. Therefore, I believe that there should Sense of Congress language that provides that the Bankruptcy Code should be reviewed and amended in the future to permit bankruptcy judges to address the question of individual home mortgages. This would send a clear message that Congress is interested in helping Americans pay off their debt despite its not changing the Bankruptcy Code at this time. 
   The third amendment that I would like to offer makes an addition to Section 109 of the bill, which addresses ``foreclosure mitigation efforts.'' The present language of 109 provides that the Secretary of the Treasury should be encouraged to allow individual homeowners who face mortgage foreclosure to modify the homeowners' loans to prevent mortgage foreclosure. My amendment would change the words from ``shall encourage'' to ``shall require'' to provide stronger relief for Americans. 
   In listening to the discussions that have been coming out of the mouths of voters across America, there is confusion as to what the monies will be used for. It would be very helpful in the legislative history or report language to designate how the monies will be utilized. 
   My fourth amendment addresses enforcement. There needs to be greater enforcement. In the section on judicial review there should be language that specifically provides that ``the courts should be able to exercise their discretion to grant injunctive and/or equitable relief if the court determines that such relief would not destabilize financial markets.'' These are remedies available at law and in equity that inure to the litigants benefit. There has been no compelling reason put forth to vitiate or limit these remedies insofar as their implementation does not unduly affect or destabilize the financial markets. 
   My fifth amendment would create a new independent, commission to exercise oversight over what happened and the commission should regularly provide reports to Congress. This Commission unlike the one presently in the bill would be backward looking. 
   My sixth amendment would provide for narrowly crafted enforcement language. It provides that corporate executives who have been convicted of criminal malfeasance in the financial sector would be barred from conducting financial business with the government for a period of seven (7) years. 
   This is important because those corporate executives who have been convicted of criminal wrongdoing should not be allowed to continue in conducting business with the government. They should be barred for a period to attenuate the taint of their wrongdoing. 
   My seventh, amendment would permanently lift the present insurance cap of $100,000 that FDIC has established to insure funds stored in FDIC-backed banking institutions. This is different from the Senate bill because it makes the increase to $250,000 permanent. 
   My eighth, and final, amendment concerns Section 109 of the bill. Specifically, in Section 109, which addresses ``foreclosure mitigation efforts,'' the language should be changed from ``shall encourage'' to ``shall require'' to provide stronger relief for Americans. 
   Specifically, current section 109(a) states in pertinent part that ``the Secretary shall implement a plan that seeks to maximize assistance for homeowners and use the authority of the Secretary to encourage the servicers of the underlying mortgages ..... to minimize foreclosures.'' I believe if the true intent is to bailout ``Main Street,'' the Secretary should be ``required'' to minimize foreclosures.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION PACKAGE -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the speaker very much, and again for his leadership. 
   I rise not because I would have wanted this vote today on the Emergency Economic Stabilization rescue package to be characterized as it has been characterized as ``a vote of the moment'' historic vote because I believe historic votes are votes that are absolutely imperative, that no one could foresee, that the challenges cannot be handled in any other way. 
   In this instance, we have been floating money for the past 8 years, ignoring regulation, ignoring the spiraling unemployment. And even though the motives were good to give opportunities to those who eagerly work every day and seek the American Dream, the vehicles, the facilities by which we allowed them or gave them the opportunity to seek and to attain those dreams was not theirs, it was the financial houses that saw big dollars in the eyes, the minds and the hearts of hardworking families that simply wanted to provide a homework desk for their children, their children's own room. So it caught Members, if you will, cast about in the suggestion and the characterization made by the administration, but made as well by media rushing to hysteria. 
   Then, of course, in the midst of this debate did not come the Senate's vote, which many people will think was one-upsmanship, but really what came as startling numbers--the numbers of 159,000 people who lost their jobs in this last month, the highest in 5 years; the fact that we needed to extend unemployment, not because people are deadbeat, but because they're out of luck, because they need this opportunity; came the number of 759,000 jobs that we have lost; came the unfortunate facts that credit crunching was going on, not necessarily for the seventh grader who may want to go to college 5 years from now, but for the person who desperately needs to buy a car or the small business that desperately needs to make their payroll. 
   So as a person who voted no because I believe the restraints on the Secretary of the Treasury were unfettered, the vote that I took on Monday, these rising issues drew on my conscience. No one had to call me. I wasn't pushed by this candidate or that candidate. It was the deliberation that Members individually reflected upon as they listened to constituents, as we, in essence, refuted some of their points or agreed with some of those, no to the bailout. But I think we have to take stands sometimes that are painful; and not that anyone should be sympathetic to that, that is our job. But this was not a historic moment. And the only reason I say that is it was the making of something that did not have to happen. 
   So how do we go forward? Well, I am grateful to a leadership that understood that we had to take this particular position. And they did it with diplomacy and acumen and smartness. So I thank them, all of them, the Democratic leadership. But at the same time, we have to be vigilant. My support came today because I believe that we are, if you will, recessed at the call of the Chair. If we find that this is not helping Mr. and Mrs. America, Mr. and Mrs. Main Street, this Congress can come back lickity split, and I will be there. 
   We also recognize that there may be unfettered powers by this particular Secretary of the Treasury, but we have the Constitution, we have our powers to stop any use of power that may be abusive. 
   In addition, we can again question the FDIC and make them function, the SEC, and make it function, the Federal Reserve, and make it function. We should continue to emphasize that those who engage in criminal improprieties should be subject to criminal prosecution. We should press for the American man and woman and homeowner the rights of bankruptcy so individually they can go in in a dignified way and restructure their loan and keep their house. 
   We should recognize that section 109 should be a section that is required. It has to do with working out mortgages. It says ``encourage it.'' We want to make sure that we prioritize those who are holding bad mortgages, who have a home they want to save, and make sure that the Secretary is working to require them to change. 
   And on judicial review, we need to make sure that it really works. We need to put aside money for those who need that to restructure their loans. 
   Mr. Speaker, I close by saying yes, I voted ``aye,'' because those who were victims needed something to move the  credit crunch along so that they could be helped, and I hope that we have done something that makes a difference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL MISSING CHILDREN'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res 1142, Recognizing May 25, 2008, as National Missing Children's Day. First, I would like to thank  my distinguished colleague, Nick Lampson of Texas, for introducing this important legislation. The sole purpose of this bill is to build awareness around the issue of missing children for the purpose of finding children who are currently missing and to prevent future abductions. 
   National Missing Children's Day honors our Nation's obligation to locate and recover missing children by prompting parents, guardians, and other trusted-adult role models to make child safety an utmost priority. It is important to create a voice within Congress on the issue of missing and exploited children and introduce legislation that would strengthen law enforcement, community organizing and school-based efforts to address child abduction. 
   In the United States, nearly 800,000 children are reported missing a year, more than 58,000 children are abducted by non-family members, and more than 2,000 children are reported missing every day. It is also reported that 1,682,900 children ran away or were thrown away, while over 200,000 children were abducted by family members. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children has been instrumental in improving the recovery rate from 62 percent to 96 percent. 
   Between 1979 and 1981, a series of high-profile missing-children cases became national headlines. Three such cases contributed to the shock of the Nation's consciousness bringing attention to the seriousness of child victimization and forever changing the response by law-enforcement agencies to reports of missing children. For almost 3 years, national media attention was focused on Atlanta, GA, where the bodies of young boys and girls were discovered in lakes, marshes, and ponds along roadside trails. By the time a suspect was arrested and identified in 1981, 29 bodies were recovered. The suspect was apprehended, convicted, and now serves a life sentence in prison. 
   On May 25, 1979, Etan Patz disappeared from a New York City street on his way to school. Even before cases of missing children routinely garnered national media attention, Etan's case quickly received a lot of coverage. His father, a professional photographer, disseminated black-and-white photographs of Etan in an effort to find him. The massive search and media attention that followed focused the Nation's attention on the problem of child abduction and lack of plans to address it. 
   The tragedies of these children and others exposed a fundamental flaw. There was no coordinated effort between Federal, State, and local law enforcement; no national response system in place; and no central resource to help searching families. When it came to handling missing-children cases, the United States was a nation of 50 States often acting like 50 separate countries. 
   Mr. Speaker, I recognize National Missing Children's Day and request that all Americans join together to plan events in communities across America to raise public awareness about the issue of missing children and the need to address this national problem. One of the most important tools for law enforcement to use in the case of a missing child is an up-to-date, good quality photograph. It is important we urge all parents and guardians to follow this important precaution, and I acknowledge that National Missing Children's Day should remind Americans not to forget the children who are still missing and not to waver in the effort to reunite them with their families.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Again, let me thank the members of the Judiciary Committee, the chairman and ranking member and the manager of this bill, Mr. Scott. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a question of life or death. Many of us have traveled to Iraq. I just recently came back in the last couple of weeks. In fact, I was utilizing our delegation's Iraqi translators. We were out in the field, we were talking to Iraqi soldiers, and these translators were enormously important. They're utilized in Afghanistan as well. 
   But it is not just the translators and others in this realm, in this era, that we speak of. We remember those who ventured out in the early stages of this war that was initiated by this administration, individuals who jeopardized the lives of their families and themselves to really align themselves with U.S. soldiers, necessary vital components of serving the soldiers in order to save the U.S. soldiers' lives.     
   Some of these individuals still remain under threat in Iraq. 
   This is a balanced approach. This is an approach order offered by Senator Kennedy along with a number of bipartisan Senators. And let me pay tribute to Senator Kennedy. He has always looked to balance our security along with benefit. I pay tribute to him, and I particularly pay tribute to him for this initiative because what it says is for those who have been caught in an abyss, who have been caught in between and in betwixt now have 5,000 visas to be able to utilize to provide a safety net for them and their families. 
   There are millions of internally displaced persons in Iraq. It is a disruptive and an unstable situation. Those individuals who have lent their talents to the U.S. Government and the U.S. military face jeopardy. Many of their neighbors know what they have done. 
   So I rise to support this legislation because I believe it is a partnership between the Homeland Security Department and the State Department, working together to ensure, as they vet these individuals, that they have access to the visas. 
   The problem that this is fixing is that the loophole or the provision was closed, legitimately closed for legitimate requests, and individuals who were applying under an old process, that would not make them eligible. This simply clears up that problem. It vets the individuals to utilize the visas, and it helps to save lives. 
   I ask, Mr. Speaker, that our colleagues support this legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2829, an act to make technical corrections to section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008, which provides special immigrant status for certain Iraqis, and for other purposes. 
   This bill addresses two problems with our ability to protect those who deserve our protection. In January, we enacted a new Special Immigrant Visa, SIV, program for Iraqis whose lives are at risk because of their valuable service to our government. The SIVs were supposed to be available beginning this fiscal year. But a drafting error rendered the SIVs unavailable until the next fiscal year. The bill fixes these errors. 
   The bill also helps out a few hundred Iraqi and Afghan translators who, because of the error, continued to apply for visas under an older program. Although many of their applications have been processed and approved, they cannot come to the U.S. because of the 500 visa cap in that program has already been reached. 
   This bill would create a 4-month transition period under which the Administration can allow persons with approved petitions in the older program to use one of the 5,000 visas in the new program. 
   We owe a duty to protect foreign nationals who provide valuable services to our soldiers, diplomats, and other government officials overseas. These individuals risk their lives and that of their families, to assist and to protect our endeavors and our people. It is only right that we return the favor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 100TH BIRTHDAY OF LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Virginia and I thank him for his words of tribute, as I thank the distinguished gentleman from Iowa for his words of tribute, two distinguished gentlemen, and of course the chairman and ranking member of the full committee, Mr. Conyers and Mr. Smith. 
   I rise today with great enthusiasm to be able to commemorate this year, the 100th birthday of President Lyndon Baines Johnson. I am glad that Mr. King offered the fact that much of the legislation that was monumental, there was bipartisan support. That was a talent of Lyndon Baines Johnson. He managed to craft a legislative agenda as a President that was remarkable, I would say unbelievable, and he did it by reaching across the aisle. 
   So I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 354, commemorating President Lyndon Baines Johnson on the occasion of his centennial birthday celebration. I am proud to offer this legislation and to note that the President's official birth date is August 27, 1908. This will give us the opportunity to commemorate his legacy from this time until the month of August. The Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation is celebrating, however, the remarkable life and Presidency of this great man beginning today and the celebration will culminate with his family members and fellow former cabinet members and staff and supporters and Members of Congress, House and Senate, on this Wednesday, when the Senate will pass this concurrent resolution honoring President Johnson. 
   It is an honor to recognize President Lyndon Baines Johnson, not simply because he was President, but because he represented an era, because he convened a time in America that was troubled. But he was a true champion of civil rights for all Americans and he led the Nation during very turbulent political times, from the Civil Rights movement, the deaths of President John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Dr. Martin Luther King, and the Vietnam War. 
   But he was a teacher by profession in Texas. He proudly served the 10th Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives. He was a commissioned officer in the Navy and valiantly served in World War II. He was a renaissance man, he was a whole man, he was an American person, an American man, if you will. During World War II he was conferred the Silver Star, the military's third highest medal, by General Douglas MacArthur.     
   He was a United States Senator and served as both minority and majority leader. He holds the current distinction of being the youngest Senate majority leader at the age of 46. He was also Vice President, head of the Committee on Equal Employment Opportunities, and President of the United States. 
   As President, as was noted, he nominated historically the first African American, the first minority to be nominated to the Supreme Court, Thurgood Marshall, who, of course, we all know argued that premier and prominent case civil rights legacy, Brown v. Board of Education, to the United States Supreme Court. All the world took note that this southern President from Texas could nominate an African American to the Supreme Court. That was Lyndon Baines Johnson. 
   He was truly a great Texan and a great patriot and a great American. He was a devoted husband to Lady Bird Johnson, and we acknowledged her passing sadly this year, and, of course, a father to his two beloved children, Luci Baines Johnson and Lynda Johnson Robb. History shows us that beside this giant of an a man, this historic legend, there were three great women. 
   President Johnson never forgot his beginnings in Texas. My predecessor in Congress, the incomparable Honorable Barbara Jordan of the 18th Congressional District in Texas, developed a good working relationship with President Johnson, and he appointed her to serve on the Commission on Income Maintenance in 1968. 
   In addition, after the 1965 Voting Rights Act was created, she along with many African Americans ascended to the United States Congress, for the Honorable Barbara Jordan had run before and had lost. With the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the redistricting that came about, she was able to be elected to the United States Congress, along with Andy Young, and the rest is history, as we have seen the numbers of African Americans and Hispanics come to the United States Congress, creating a more equal balance because of this legislation. 
   Of course, Barbara Jordan in 1968 amended the Voting Rights Act of 1965 by adding Spanish language. Later Barbara Jordan would serve as a professor at the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas and she would accept an appointment to the Lyndon Baines Johnson Centennial Chair in National Policy at the university. 
   As a teacher, Johnson believed segregation condemned the South to educational and economic backwardness. I think it is important to note, as I said earlier, he was a son of the south. This was a very difficult stance to take. He took it out of his heart. He did not agree with segregation, and coming to the United States Congress and Senate, it freed him to do what was right. 
   In 1937, Johnson was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a liberal New Dealer allied with Democratic President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Johnson commemorated his legislative life in tribute to Franklin Delano Roosevelt, I truly believe, because he led on the War on Poverty. 
   Johnson successfully championed civil rights when he successfully ran for the U.S. Senate in 1948. Even then, as I said, as a son of the south, he was unashamed of his belief against segregation. In 1957, when a civil rights bill came before Congress, Johnson favored the bill and worked hard behind the scenes to win its passage. He moved from one side to the other, persuading southern Democrats and northern liberals to compromise. The Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first civil rights legislation to pass since reconstruction, was  signed by President Eisenhower in September 1957. Civil right was bipartisan in this body, and President Johnson knew that. 
   In 1960, John F. Kennedy invited Johnson to join the Democratic presidential ticket as his running mate. Some would say there could not be two more different individuals. But what a match, what a wonderful match. And they went on to victory. As they went on to victory, they showed the world that different viewpoints can be united. 
   When Johnson met Dr. Martin Luther King a few days after Kennedy's assassination, Dr. King told Johnson that racial tensions could no longer be tempered by compromise. Johnson appreciated King's powers of persuasion and decided to utilize his experience to pass the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Dr. King and President Johnson continued to work closely to pass the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Fair Housing Act. 
   It was difficult times. There were agreements and disagreements. But, lo and behold, the great and wonderful hopeful dream of Dr. Martin Luther King did his work and asked that President Johnson do his work, and together they did their work for America. 
   Reminiscing on the trials and triumphs on her young years in the White House, his daughter Luci Baines Johnson stated that her legacy from the White House days were ``a thousand friendships, a deep and abiding love of country and public service, a passion for learning, and the recognition that getting in life is truly to be found in the giving and the belief that I should try to live each day as if it is my last.'' 
   President Johnson signed these bills into law, as I indicated: the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act and the Open Housing Act. President Johnson started Head Start, Job Corps and Medicare, among many others. And if you look at his time in Congress and his time as President, you will find not just a Presidency, but you will find an era. 
   It is amazing the bills that President Johnson passed. I simply want to take note of them and will place into the Record two pages of legislation under the auspices and the administration of Lyndon Baines Johnson that included so many bills, the Kennedy Cultural Center, the Urban Mass Transit, Food Stamps, housing acts, Head Start and others. 
   We understand we are going into a hot summer, a summer where youth are looking for jobs. President Johnson offered Job Corps, Youth Jobs, Medicare for those who are up in years, and, of course, he declared the War on Poverty, the first President to do so. He developed 40 programs to eliminate poverty, and his programs were intended to improve the living conditions of all Americans. 
   Of course, he was a great educator. His daughter Lynda Robb once stated, ``But daddy wasn't as interested in the numbers of laws he helped enact as he was in the number of lives that he helped to enrich.'' 
   I just want to show this body some of the pictures that show the working relationship with major civil rights leaders that worked closely with the President on these civil rights laws. It shows the passion that he had, that he was a-hands-on President. 
   As he met with Dr. Martin Luther King, this picture shows him giving the pen which he signed the 1964-1965 bill, and as well the signing ceremonies that took place during that time. This, of course, shows Barbara Jordan and Vernon Jordan who stood with the President on many, many issues. 
   Let me close by simply acknowledging one of the greatest moments I think this Congress had a chance to witness, and that was the President's speech to Congress as he dealt with this question of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. As he spoke to the Speaker and to the Members of Congress, he said, ``I speak tonight for the dignity of man and the destiny of democracy. I urge every member of both parties, Americans of all religions and of all colors from every section of this country to join me in that cause. At times history and fate meet at a single time in a single place to shape a turning point in man's unending search for freedom. So it was at Lexington and Concord. So it was a century ago at Appomattox. So it was last week in Selma, Alabama.'' 
   The President opened up his words by suggesting that we could do this together. These are his final words. 
   ``So I ask you to join me in working long hours, nights and weekends, if necessary, to pass this bill. And I don't make that request lightly. For from the window where I sit, with the problems of our country, I recognize that outside this Chamber is the outraged conscience of a nation, the grave concern of many nations, and the harsh judgment of history on our acts.'' And, of course, he said ``We shall overcome.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I would say to you that President Lyndon Baines Johnson was the President of the United States, but he represents the compilation of all the dreams and aspirations of many who could not speak for themselves. He embraced the civil rights leaders. He understood as a son of the South that he could make a difference. He reached across the aisle and counted every vote. He knew how tough it was going to be to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and then ultimately after the violence of Selma, the 1965 Voting Rights Act. 
   He opened the doors to many of us. I stand here as a true testimony to all that he has done. All of us who have had the doors of education opened, the doors of political process opened, the doors of poverty removed, opened and then shut, owe that to President Lyndon Baines Johnson. 
   I started by saying that he is not just a President, but it is an era which we should remember. Joseph Califano said it is not a President that should be forgotten, but should be remembered. I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, and I ask them to do so enthusiastically. 
   Mr. Speaker, I include the list of legislation mentioned earlier: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GAS PRICE RELIEF FOR CONSUMERS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Virginia for his leadership, and I appreciate greatly the leadership of Dr. Kagen of Wisconsin for this enormously thoughtful legislation for it is focused, if you will, on moving the ball forward for suffering constituents, whether they're in Wisconsin, Virginia, Texas. Even oil- and gas-producing States such as Texas are facing the crisis of oil shortages, gasoline high prices and difficulties for working men and women. 
   Why is this thoughtful? I serve on the Antitrust Task Force on the House Judiciary Committee, and we're looking at broad-based issues, domestic and international, on how prices are being either constrained or expanded by the idea of maintaining price controls. 
   And so OPEC itself, being with many of its members who are part of the WTO, certainly can be subjected to the question that is raised by this legislation. 
   The bill authorizes the Attorney General to establish a Department of Justice petroleum industry antitrust task force, very thoughtful and forward-thinking. This task force has the responsibility to develop, coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the investigative and enforcement policies of the Department of Justice related to the petroleum industry. 
   We must do something, and this is a complement to the very important work that the Democrats did moving forward very important energy legislation that deals with alternatives, that really spoke to Mom and Pop, that spoke to the truck drivers. 
   And I look forward to working with my colleagues as we move this legislation forward to address the question of whether OPEC is manipulating prices. Certainly, it can be a better approach on what happened over the last couple of days when we know that one of the  OPEC members simply said I'll give you a few pennies on the market by offering up an extra couple of barrels of oil. 
   This is a reasoned perspective, and so I would reach out to the administration to work with us. The energy bill is languishing. Why? Because we hear that the administration will, in fact, veto it. 
   There are some ideas that I think are important. Those of us on the gulf region have supported a safe, environmental process of exploring in the gulf. Some of us do believe that there can be a moratorium on gasoline taxes if it comes from someplace other than the Highway Trust Fund. 
   Dr. Kagen's bill is meaningful; it is forthright. It says what it wants to do, and it gives the procedures for doing so with an important task force that questions OPEC and its ability to manipulate prices. It is answering the question of those Americans who are in need of relief, those truck drivers who are in need of relief, and I ask my colleagues to support again this very thoughtful legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6074, the ``Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act of 2008.'' I support this bill. 
   The purpose of this bill is to amend the Sherman Act to make oil-producing and exporting cartels illegal and for other purposes. The bill makes it illegal for any foreign state or instrumentality to act collectively or in combination with any foreign state, to limit the production or distribution of oil, natural gas, or any other petroleum product. It also makes it illegal to set or maintain the price of oil or natural gas, or petroleum product or otherwise take any action in restraint of trade for such products. 
   The bill authorizes the Attorney General to establish in the Department of Justice a Petroleum Industry Antitrust Task Force. This Task Force has the responsibility to develop, coordinate, and facilitate the implementation of the investigative and enforcement policies of the Department of Justice related to the petroleum industry. 
   The bill authorizes the Task Force to provide an annual report to Congress describing the investigatory and enforcement efforts. The bill also requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study evaluating the effects of mergers addressed in merger consent decrees on competition within 1 year of enactment of this bill. 
   This bill is an important effort to address the oil crisis faced by the United States. Americans are in desperate need of relief. Increasingly, as the economy spirals into a recession, Americans must choose between food, energy, and gas. This crisis is of national and international importance. 
   Oil prices have not been regulated since the Reagan Administration; however, the market situation since 2004 has yielded little excess capacity. Because OPEC determines the supply of oil vis-a-vis demand, it plays a significant role in the determination of the price of oil in the world market. Whereas OPEC is comprised of approximately 13 countries, it has 75 percent of the world's oil reserves, which affords it considerable control over the 
   global market. OPEC produces 40 percent of the world's oil needs with approximately 30 million barrels of oil per day. The rest of the oil refineries in the world are producing at full capacity. Given their large oil reserves, OPEC countries have considerable capacity, which if utilized could ameliorate the current oil crises. 
   The weakening value of the dollar, political uncertainty and unrest in places such as Nigeria, Venezuela, India, and China exacerbate the problem. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, member countries of OPEC, have the capability of producing more oil. In addition, another OPEC member country, Iraq, has the capability of producing more oil. Despite this excess capacity, the OECD countries and other major oil importers such as Japan and the EU, are paying higher prices for oil. Worse still is the plight faced by the developing world. While the developed world is facing high oil prices, the developing world is facing even higher prices with the weakening value of the dollar. Food prices all over the world are rising and instability is growing. Something must be done and this bill is a first step. 
   In Houston, Texas, retail gas prices are above $3.60 a gallon and will likely continue to rise this summer. Many analysts see prices peaking closer to $4 a gallon. Gas prices are rising on concerns about supplies and demand. Analysts say refiners have cut back on gasoline production because of low profit margins; the rising price of crude means it costs them more to refine gas. 
   Demand for gasoline is expected to fall by 85,000 barrels a day this summer compared to last because of high prices and the weak economy. This would be the first summertime decline in gasoline demand since 1991. To date, however, falling demand has failed to deflate surging gas prices, which are putting more pressure on consumers. Consumers are already suffering from higher food prices, falling home values, and a tight job market. 
   This important bill seeks to address the oil crisis from a domestic standpoint. It is an important first step. While the bill amends the Sherman Act to make oil-producing and exporting cartels illegal, I believe more can be done, and I work to ensure that all Americans will benefit from affordable oil and gas prices. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LET OUR VETERANS REST IN PEACE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Virginia. 
   It is of great necessity that we rise today to stand against this horrible and devastating act, and that is, the desecration of our veterans' or our fallen soldiers' graves. So I rise in support of H.R. 3480, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008, in honor and tribute to Jeremy Burris of Texas, whose grave site was desecrated. 
   Might I also suggest that on the eve of the commemoration of Memorial Day, when we acknowledge and honor and pay tribute to our fallen soldiers, this is enormously important legislation. Because the desecration of veterans' graves is becoming so pervasive, States have acted by replacing the stolen markers with aluminum markers instead of the brass and bronze markers they once used. How insulting, how low. And so it is important that this Congress say to the American people, and those who would do such dastardly deeds, we will accept it no more. 
   With the price of aluminum sharply on the rise, it is expected that aluminum that is being utilized instead of the bronze may also be stolen. So this important legislation is asking for enhanced penalties to make a very strong statement that this is an intolerable act and an unacceptable act. 
   As we mourn our most recent dead, those who have fallen in Iraq, how much more can families tolerate to know that they buried their loved ones, and then someone desecrated their graves? 
   It is important that this legislation pass today to recognize again the great debt of gratitude and the great debt of appreciation that we owe our fallen soldiers. 
   As the great British leader, Winston Churchill, famously stated, ``Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' 
   We owe, many of us, all of us, so much to the few who have fallen on behalf of this great Nation. And so I support, enthusiastically, the legislation sponsored by our good friend, Representative Carney from Pennsylvania, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008. Let this be an important statement that we will not tolerate the continuation of such desecration.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3480, the ``Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008.'' 
   This important piece of legislation is an effort to stop the theft of Veterans' grave markers. Increasingly, these grave markers are being sold to scrap yards and recycling centers as scrap metal. The bill directs the Sentencing Commission to review and enhance the laws that currently protect Veteran grave markers. 
   Because the desecration of veterans' graves is becoming so pervasive, States have acted by replacing the stolen markers with aluminum markers instead of the brass and bronze markers they once used. However, with the price of aluminum sharply on the rise, it is expected that these will soon be stolen also. 
   The May Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act of 2008 will bring attention to this issue and increase penalties for this crime so that thieves no longer consider robbing grave markers for scrap metal as easy money and will think twice about desecrating the tombstone of a fallen war veteran. 
   I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans after every conflict, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to ensuring that we respect our fallen veterans. Veterans have kept their promise to serve our Nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. We must now ensure that we keep our promises to our veterans. 
   Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 veterans living in my Congressional district alone. On this Veterans Day, I hope we will all take the time to show appreciation to those who have answered the call to duty. As the great British leader Winston Churchill famously stated, ``Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' 
   With the approval of legislation on June 1, 1954, November 11th became a day to honor American veterans of all wars. Later that same year, on October 8th, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a decorated veteran of war, issued the first ``Veterans Day Proclamation'' which stated in part: ``In order to insure proper and widespread observance of this anniversary, all veterans, all veterans' organizations, and the entire citizenry will wish to join hands in the common purpose.'' It was with that endearing spirit that America celebrated the first Veterans Day.  
   We must always remember the debt that we owe our fallen veterans that have paid the ultimate sacrifice. From the four surviving World War I veterans known to be living in the United States, to the over 300,000 veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom we expect to see by the end of 2008. Our gratitude must continue to be unwavering to our fallen soldiers and veterans. 
   In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ``As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the praises of our Nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I believe it is necessary for the Nation to act now so that we all can pay respect, tribute, and homage to the lives of the fallen armed services veterans who have fought to keep America free and have fought to make sure that all people and nations partake in the universal freedoms that we find so important in this country. These individuals have given so much and have paid us the ultimate sacrifice: the sacrifice of their lives. The least that we can do, is ensure that these veterans rest eternally in peace and that their grave markers are not stolen for the profit of a few. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXTENDING PROGRAM RELATING TO WAIVER OF FOREIGN COUNTRY RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL GRADUATES -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise as well to support the legislation, H.R. 5571, and to commend the chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Immigration of the House Judiciary Committee for her leadership on this issue, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren. I thank the manager of the bill, Mr. Scott, for his leadership; our chairman of the full committee; our ranking member of the full committee; and the ranking member of the Immigration Subcommittee, Mr. King of Iowa. 
   This is an embracing and unifying initiative. Why? Because we all understand the necessity of health care in America. We understand the importance of providing access to health care no matter where you live. And I thank Mr. Blake Chisam and my staff, Mr. Arthur Sidney, for working on language that I proposed to emphasize the importance of the provision that these doctors receive and should be guided by language that indicate that they should be utilized in areas that are underserved, that there are doctors that are not serving the area.     
   So that foreign doctors who will benefit from the waiver provisions, which means eliminating the need for foreign medical doctors to return to their native land, will be utilized or encouraged to be utilized in areas around the country. The language in particular reads: It is the sense of Congress that Federal programs waiving the J-1 home residency requirement for physicians are generally designed to promote the delivery of critically needed medical services to Americans lacking adequate access to physician care, and that when determining the qualification of location for a waiver petition, the Department of Health and Human Services should always consider the needs of vulnerable populations in low-income and impoverished communities, communities with high infant mortality rates, rural areas, and communities exhibiting other signs of a lack of necessary physician services. 
   In my State of Texas, we have been fighting for this for a very long time. In the rural parts of Texas, we are lacking in medical services and physicians. It's very important when these waivers are given that these physicians are utilized where they can best serve, and that is in vast number of areas that do not have access to health care. 
   I support this legislation, H.R. 5571, and I think as it comes to the floor, it contains all the elements that suggest a benefit that brings about a burden, but not a burden that is negative but a burden to serve those who are in desperate need. Many of our country are, and these physicians can help them. With that, I believe this is an important bill.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5571, to extend for 5 years the program relating to waiver of the foreign country residence requirement with respect to international medical graduates. The purpose of this bill is to extend for 5 years the program relating to a waiver of the foreign country residence requirement with respect to international medical graduates. I support this bill. 
   The Immigration and Nationality Act allows for foreign doctors to train in the United States under the ``J-1'' visa program, otherwise known as non-immigrants in the ``Exchange Visitor Program.'' This Exchange Visitor Program seeks to promote peaceful relations and mutual understanding with other countries through educational and cultural exchange programs. Accordingly, many exchange visitors, including doctors in training, are subject to a requirement that they must return to their home country to share with their countrymen the knowledge, experience, and impressions gained during their stay in the United States. Unless U.S. Customs and Immigration Service approves a waiver of this requirement, the exchange visitors must depart from the United States and live in their 
   home country for 2 years before they are allowed to apply for an immigrant visa, permanent residence, or a new non-immigrant status. 
   A waiver of the 2 year foreign residency requirement is available for doctors who have trained in the United States under the J-1 visa if a State or an interested Federal agency sponsors the physician exchange visitor to work in a health manpower shortage area within the State for 3 years as a non-immigrant in H-1B status (temporary worker in specialty occupation). The Secretary of Health and Human Services determines which areas have a health manpower shortage. 
   The availability of this waiver will sunset on June 1, 2008. H.R. 5571 would extend this waiver for 5 years to ensure that areas in the United States with a shortage of doctors have an option to hire a doctor with a J-1 visa for 3 years where there is no other doctor available to fill the job. 
   I worked with Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren to ensure that the foreign doctors who will benefit from the waiver provisions, eliminating the need for the foreign medical doctors to return to their native land, will be  required to work in impoverished and underserved inner-city and urban communities. I believe that this is important because Americans who need access to medical care, the poor and needy, will benefit. This would be a tremendous improvement in the U.S. medical system and would move us closer to garnering access to healthcare for all. 
   Specifically, I worked to include the following language in the bill:   
   It is the sense of Congress that Federal programs waiving the J-1 home residency requirement for physicians are generally designed to promote the delivery of critically needed medical services to Americans lacking adequate access to physician care and that when determining the qualification of a location for a waiver petition, the Department of Health and Human Services should always consider the needs of vulnerable populations in low-income and impoverished communities, communities with high infant mortality rates, rural areas, and communities exhibiting other signs of a lack of necessary physician services.   
   Across this great Nation the health disparities between minority and majority populations are staggering. Most major diseases--diabetes, heart disease, prostate cancer, HIV/AIDS, low-birth-weight babies--all hit the minority communities harder. Minorities consistently have decreased access to care, and receive lower quality care, when they do have access. As the economy continues to falter and as the unemployment rate spikes, millions of Americans are losing their health insurance. That state of 
   affairs will only make the health disparities worse. Consider these statistics: 
   African-American women are nearly three times as likely to die from pregnancy complications and childbirth as White women. 
   Native American, African-American and Hispanic women are most likely to receive inadequate prenatal care. 
   Compared with White women, African American women are twice as likely and Hispanic women are nearly three times as likely to be uninsured. Furthermore, African Americans and Hispanics are much more likely than Whites to lack a usual source of care and to encounter other difficulties in obtaining needed care. 
   Certain minorities also have much higher rates of diabetes-related complications and death, in some instances by as much as 50 percent more than the total population. It is truly an epidemic. 
   Nearly 31 percent of African American girls in the 4th grade were overweight in 2001. 
   Thirteen percent of Houston high school students are overweight and 17 percent are at risk. 
   Thirty-four percent of African American women are obese, compared to 19 percent of White women. 
   Forty-four percent of African American women are projected to be obese by 2020, and 47 percent by 2040. 
   As of February 2006, African-Americans represented only 13 percent of the U.S. population, but accounted for 40 percent of the 944,306 AIDS cases diagnosed since the start of the epidemic and approximately half, 49 percent, of the 42,514 cases diagnosed in 2004 alone. 
   African-Americans also account for half of new HIV/AIDS diagnoses in the 35 States/areas with confidential name-based reporting. 
   The AIDS case rate per 100,000 population among African-American adults/adolescents was nearly 10.2 times that of Whites in 2004. 
   African-Americans accounted for 55 percent of deaths due to HIV in 2002 and their survival time after an AIDS diagnosis is lower on average than it is for other racial/ethnic groups. 
    HIV was the third leading cause of death for African-Americans, ages 25-34, in 2002 compared to the sixth leading cause of death for Whites and Latinos in this age group. 
   African-American women account for the majority of new AIDS cases among women, 67 percent in 2004; while White women account for 17 percent and Latinos 15 percent. Among African-Americans, African-American women represent more than a third, 36 percent, of AIDS cases diagnosed in 2004. 
   Although African-American teens, ages 13-19, represent only 15 percent of U.S. teenagers, they accounted for 66 percent of new AIDS cases reported among teens in 2003. 
   It is my hope that the language that I worked to get included in the bill will promote the delivery of critically needed medical services to Americans in low-income and impoverished communities, rural areas, and communities that are in desperate need of physician services. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1424, the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Rhode Island, Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, but ask for a closer at Section 6, and its effect on physician-owned general hospitals. 
   I have opposed H. Res. 1014, the rule which provided for consideration of H.R. 1424; however, I am in support of the bill itself. 
   This bill permanently reauthorizes and expands the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 to provide for equity in the coverage of mental health and substance disorders as compared to medical and surgical disorders. This legislation ensures that group health plans do not charge higher co-payments, coinsurance, deductibles, and impose maximum out-of-pocket limits and lower day and visit limits on mental health and addiction care than for medical and surgical benefits. 
   Although this legislation does not mandate group health plans, if a plan does offer mental health coverage, then this legislation would require it to offer equity in its: (1) financial requirements applied to mental health and substance-related disorders, (2) equity in treatment limitations, (3) prohibit discrimination by diagnosis, and (4) equality in out-of-network coverage.  
   This legislation provides for greater transparency in medical management, and strict enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service, something we all want to see more of in the health care industry. 
   Over the past several decades, America's health care system has been a leader in innovation. This innovation has given patients unprecedented access to specialized care in all different fields of medicine. Whether it's in cancer centers, children's hospitals, or ambulatory surgical centers, patients now have the ability to receive quality care in a hospital of their choice. 
   Unfortunately, this bill stifles the very innovation and choice that has laid the groundwork to real transformation in our health care system. A provision in H.R. 1424 would severely restrict the ability and capacity of physician owned 
   hospitals to provide quality healthcare to their patients. It does not matter if the hospital is rural, inner city, big or small this legislation will punish these hospitals, the doctors and the nurses that serve their community every day by restricting them from providing high quality care to their patients. Physician owned hospitals serve as an integral part in the future of patient care and should not be dismissed just because they have physician investment. 
   In Texas, we have inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals, general care hospitals, and community hospitals that are nationally recognized as the best in the industry and each and every one of them has physician investment. Patients across the great state of Texas have greatly benefited from the safety, quality, and innovation that physician owned hospitals bring. 
   In an era when hospital deaths from infections, medical errors, and other problems approach 100,000 a year, physician owned hospitals have placed a very large emphasis on eliminating preventable complications and errors in order to improve patient care. 
   Just this month in a Forbes article, a University of Iowa study found that tens of thousands of Medicare patients' complication rates for hip and knee surgeries were 40 percent lower at specialty hospitals than at other hospitals. These hospitals provide a needed service and they must be allowed to continue their good work now and in the future. 
   Before Senator Paul Wellstone's untimely death and that of his wife and daughter, I had the opportunity to meet with him and work with him on these very issues. His dedication to creating affordable healthcare for all Americans is what is at the root of this legislation. Having a provision that actually seeks to restrict physicians and hospitals seems to obliterate the bipartisanship and purpose of this bill. 
   We all support the goal of equal access to mental health benefits. However, we should not believe that it should be paid for by sacrificing facilities that bring quality, efficient and accessible healthcare to all patients. 
   I urge my colleagues to take a closer look at the effect this legislation will have on physician-owned hospitals. Despite my reservations regarding the disproportionate impact on physician-owned hospitals, ultimately patients benefit from this legislation and therefore I ask each of you to join me in supporting H.R. 1424. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION CIVILIAN MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 1084, the Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian H.R. Management Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative FARR. 
   This important legislation will amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, and the Foreign Service Act of 1980 in order to build operational readiness for civilian agencies. 
   Since the end of the cold war, the United States has consistently been engaged in stabilization or reconstruction operation at the average interval of once every 18 to 24 months. However, despite the United States' ever increasing stabilization efforts around the world, U.S. Agency for International Development, USAID), the most significant dipolmatic and development organ of the United States Government, has been substantially weakened due to staff cuts, hiring freezes, and consolidation. This is absolutely unacceptable. 
   In a time where the U.S. has mounted a global war on terror, arguably destabilizing more regions than not, it is imperative that American diplomatic missions reflect American global involvement. This important legislation authorizes the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of USAID, to establish a Response Readiness Corps to provide stabilization and reconstruction activities in foreign countries or those with expertise in engineering, agricultural development, rule of law, and civil administration required for the complex stabilization missions of today are simply not there. At a time regions that are at risk, in, or are in transition from, conflict or civil strife (up to 250 personnel to serve in the Corps, and such other personnel as the Secretary may designate from the Department and USAID). 
   I have said time and time again that what the United States needs is a new diplomatic offensive, a diplomatic surge. That being said, there are only 6,600 professional Foreign Service officers today in the State Department. According to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the number of professional Foreign Service officers is less than the personnel of one carrier battle group. In a time when the United States is engaged in two massive stabilization and reconstruction efforts and countless other emergencies, USAID has less than 1,000 Foreign Service officers, as opposed to during the height of the Cold War when there were more than 4,500 Foreign Service officers. In essence, we have created a situation where those with expertise in engineering, agricultural development, rule of law, and civil administration required for the complex stabilization missions of today are simply not there. At a time 
   when we need to call on this expertise the most, the U.S. Government capacity for these skills is at its weakest. 
   This legislation seeks to alleviate some of this total lack of diplomatic and developmental capacity. The aim of this bill is to successfully address upcoming threats and prosecute the long-term fight against terror by fortifying the United States Government's civilian capacity to deal with instability, particularly in areas where terrorist and terrorism thrive. This legislation will authorize the Secretary to establish a Readiness Response Corps in order to alleviate the gap in civilian capacity. This Corps will include active, as well as standby, components composed of Federal employees. Furthermore, it includes a reserve component consisting of civilian experts from State and local governments as well as non-governmental organizations. 
   The current American diplomatic and developmental strategy simply does not sufficiently meet the needs of today's world. This bill will amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to authorize the President to transfer or reprogram up to $100 million in any given fiscal year for the purposes of furnishing assistance and permitting the export of goods and services to assist in stabilizing and reconstructing a country or region that is in, or is in transition from, conflict or civil strife. It also amends the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 in order to establish within the Department of State an absolutely essential Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization. 
   I strongly support this legislation that will ease the burden on the Armed Forces by allowing the State Department to deploy civilians in crisis situations previously staffed by the military. Our men and woman in uniform have accomplished what we asked them to do and it is time that the U.S. Government responsibly and appropriately addresses the stabilization and reconstruction situations that persist, despite our inaction, throughout the world. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important and timely piece of legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PAUL WELLSTONE BILL -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to take an opportunity during this 1-minute to again congratulate my good friend and colleague, Representative Patrick Kennedy, and to pay tribute to the late Senator Paul Wellstone. 
   Any of us who represent people know that there are millions who are languishing in the darkness of mental health and mental health disease. And for once now we are moving a bill that deals with the idea that no one can be discriminated against in any health policy, whether it is increased financial cost, whether it is that they deny you the equal treatment that you would get if you had a broken leg, or whether or not it is a discrimination in the diagnosis. 
   This bill, H.R. 1424, gives you a new lease on life. It is the civil rights of mental health. And so, Mr. Speaker, I am hoping that we will eliminate from this bill the dastardly provision that does not allow our hospitals that may be owned by physicians in urban and rural areas serving the poorest of people to be eliminated through this bill. 
   Let us go forth with the Paul Wellstone bill and eliminate the distraction that undermines good health in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1424, PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentlelady from Florida and the gentleman from Minnesota for yielding and their indulgence. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am rising to first of all take my hat off to Congressman PATRICK KENNEDY. This is a day in waiting, for he has worked without tiring in the tradition of my good friend, Senator Paul Wellstone, now deceased, who worked and committed themselves to changing the inequity, really, I would think, constitutionally wrong, to disallow mental health parity and those who suffered from mental health issues. 
   All of our family members, or all of our families, have faced these crises. We ask the question, what do we do? That is why I am so disappointed that we have taken the work of PATRICK KENNEDY and imploded it. We have dissolved the bipartisan allegiance to this bill, the commitment to mental health parity, by destroying hospitals in our districts, hospitals that are serving the poor of our districts. Why they would think that this was an important element of this bill, I don't know. And that is, of course, to end the growth of physician-owned hospitals in urban and rural areas for poor and those who are without access to hospitals. 
   This would restrict the ability and capacity of physician-owned hospitals. It doesn't matter if the hospital is rural or in the inner city, big or small. It punishes these hospitals. In Houston, in the 18th Congressional District, it punishes St. Joseph's, it punishes the Heights Hospital, and it does so without any reason. 
   We could pay for this by the tax cuts that we are taking away from those making over $250,000, or the tax cuts on the energy company. But why are you breaking the backs of those who clearly need an opportunity? 
   This bill should include a robust State license emergency care with doctors on call at all times to care for patients. That is what these hospitals need to have. Maintain a minimum number of physicians available at all times to provide service and provide charity care equal to at least 4 percent of its operating budget. We can put criteria on these hospitals. We don't have to destroy them. I am saddened by what we have done to this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES TO THOSE AFFECTED BY THE DEVASTATING SHOOTING INCIDENT AT NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1007, expressing the condolences of the House to those affected by the devastating shooting incident of February 14, 2008 at Northern Illinois University in Dekalb, Illinois. 
   The shootings at Northern Illinois University, on Thursday, February 14, reminded us once again that the wrath of violence can easily destroy the lives of many students seeking education. On that day, a gunman took the lives of 5 students and wounded 17 more. My deepest sympathies and thoughts are with the victims, their families, and the community of students, teachers, and staff. 
   This reaffirms the steps we must take as public officials to ensure that schools, colleges, and universities in the United States are a safe and secure environment for learning. We must take a hard look at gun regulation. We must regulate the process by which civilians are able to obtain firearms for the sake of protecting those who may be victims of senseless crimes. Americans must stop apologizing and actually do something about the problem. We must stop denying that problems like this will never happen in our communities. A system of educating students and parents about gun safety should be paralleled with education systems by providing students with councelors, or spiritual advisors. 
   I express my deepest condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones of those who were killed in the tragic shooting: Gayle Dubpwski, Catalina Garcia, Julianna Gehant, Ryanne Mace, and Daniel Parameter. As citizens of the United States, we offer support to the victims' families with prayer and hope for a speedy recovery to those who were wounded. I commend the emergency responders, law enforcement officers, health care providers, and counselors who performed their duties with professionalism and dedication in response to the tragedy. 
   The Northern Illinois University Community must be determined to move `forward, together forward', in the words of the Huskie fight song, and persevere through this tragedy. Indeed they must trod with heavy hearts but unbroken spirits. 
   I cannot begin to understand how the actions of something so terrible could occur in one of our institutions of higher learning. Our Nation continues to grapple with this horrific event. We can never completely understand why these things happen. I realize that no words can heal the wounds of February 14, 2008 for the NIU family, but I extend my arms as a Member of the United States Congress in offering all of my prayers, support, and hugs for your family during this difficult time.  
   Mr. Davis of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 1013 Expressing the sense of the Congress that providing breakfast in schools through the National School Breakfast Program has a positive impact on classroom performance. 
   Research shows that eating breakfast affects a child's overall performance during school. A nutritious breakfast provides students with the energy needed to start the day. Students who eat breakfast before school do not face hunger symptoms such as headache, fatigue, sleepiness and restlessness. In turn eating breakfast helps students to think faster when doing school work and respond more clearly to teacher questions. 
   A good balanced breakfast has been linked to causing an increase in mental performance, helping to keep students from ``drifting'' during class, causing them to be calmer and less anxious. Those are things that are important for success in class. 
   Studies also show that eating a solid breakfast is a major way to fight child obesity. Because this is an easy way to fight obesity breakfast helps not only in the area of health but in academics as well. It is hard for our children to have their minds on school when their stomachs are empty. Because of this reason and the important link between adequate nourishment and educational performance I stand in support of H. Con. Res. 10l3.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING MARGARET TRUMAN DANIEL AND HER LIFETIME OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in proud support of H. Con. Res. 292, as offered by my distinguished colleague from Missouri, Congressman EMANUEL CLEAVER. This resolution recognizes and honors the lifetime accomplishments of Margaret Truman Daniel. Margaret Truman Daniel, a singer and an author, was the one and only child of the late President Harry S Truman. Margaret Truman Daniel deserves no better tribute than that of being honored by members of the United States Congress. 
   Mrs. Margaret Truman Daniel was born on February 17, 1924, in Independence, Missouri. When Margaret Daniel Truman was 16 years old, she began taking voice lessons in Independence, Missouri, from Mrs. Thomas J. Strickler, a family friend. Mrs. Daniel graduated from George Washington University in 1946 and received a bachelor of arts degree in history. Her father. President Harry S Truman, took office one year before on April 12, 1945, gave her commencement address, and presented her with her diploma. She made her first outdoor appearance as a singer on August 23, 1947 at the Hollywood Bowl before a crowd of approximately 20,000 people with Eugene Ormandy conducting the orchestra. She later had her first concert on October 17, 1947, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
   Mrs. Margaret Truman Daniel married Clifton Daniel on April 21, 1956, at the Trinity Episcopal Church in Independence, Missouri. They had four children; Clifton Truman, born June 5, 1957; William Wallace, born May 19, 1959 (died September 4, 2000); Harrison Gates, born March 3, 1963; and Thomas Washington, born May 28, 1966. The Daniels' family has five grandchildren. 
   Mrs. Margaret Truman Daniel was the author of 23 novels, non-fiction and fiction, including two biographies on her parents' lives. The biographies, Harry S Truman (1972) and Bess W. Truman (1986), described the lives of the former President and former First Lady from the perspective of their only daughter, Margaret Truman Daniel. After her father's death in 1972, Mrs. Daniel worked as an advocate for presidential libraries. Mrs. Margaret Truman Daniel died in Chicago, Illinois, at the age of 83 on January 29, 2008. 
   It is not often in American history where the nation has the opportunity to witness the only child of a President of the United States become a singer and a novelist. Mrs. Margaret Truman Daniel was widely known for these accomplishments but to many Americans she was so much more. She deserves to be honored today by our Nation. 
   Today, I seek to offer my condolences for her death, and also recognize her lifetime accomplishments. For these reasons, I strongly support H. Con. Res. 292 and urge all Members to do the same.  
   Mr. Davis of Illinois. I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING AND HONORING EARL LLOYD FOR BECOMING THE FIRST AFRICAN-AMERICAN TO PLAY IN THE NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION LEAGUE -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 286 recognizing and honoring Earl Lloyd, the first African-American to play in the National Basketball Association. 
   Earl Lloyd was born April 3, 1928, in Alexandria, Virginia. It was at the city of Alexandria's segregated Parker-Gray High School that Lloyd began to develop his passion and skills for basketball. He began his collegiate career playing at West Virginia State College, a historically black college at the time. Before entering the NBA, Earl Lloyd earned titles for All-Conference and All-American for his tremendous basketball skills. 
   On October 31, 1950, Earl Lloyd integrated the NBA. Three years prior to Lloyd's integration of the NBA, Jackie Robinson became the first African-American to play Major League Baseball in 1947. Jackie Robinson has received national iconic status for breaking baseball's color barrier, yet Earl Lloyd has been overlooked for breaking that same barrier in basketball. Lloyd once said, ``In 1950 basketball was like a babe in the woods, it didn't enjoy the notoriety that baseball enjoyed.'' It is now 2008 and the NBA is long out of the woods and the time is long overdue for us to recognize and honor one of its pathfinders, Earl Lloyd. He is responsible for lighting that path and since then many great African-Americans have traveled the road paved by Earl Lloyd. 
   Earl Lloyd's journey was beset with people yelling cruel and derogatory words. He used their insults to fuel his passion to excel. He proved that African-Americans could successfully enter into the National Basketball Association. He should continue to be a source of inspiration to all and for this reason he should be commemorated. 
   This accomplishment must be saluted as Mr. Lloyd's life serves as an inspiration to many, both athletes and non-athletes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 75TH BIRTHDAY OF DESMOND MPILO TUTU -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me, first of all, thank my distinguished colleague, the manager of the bill and a distinguished member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Faleomavaega, for the very kind words that he has offered; and to the ranking member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, for her supporting words; and chiefly two very important persons who have assisted in this legislation, Chairman Lantos for his support and the very excellent committee staff that have supported us, along with our dear subcommittee Chair, Donald Payne, who is renowned for his commitment to Africa, and certainly we appreciate his friendship and support of this legislation. 
   Might I acknowledge the cosponsors who were eager to join to recognize this distinguished but bountiful with words and compassion in his small package of a man but yet his gigantic heart, mind, and spirit, Bishop Mpilo Tutu, who, as you can see, is a man that commands thousands for his vision. 
   We are proud to be able to, nearing the 76th birthday, acknowledge his 75th birthday and his 75th year. So might I also express appreciation for my staff, Yahannus Tsahani and Nina Besser, for their help in this legislation. 
   Let me say to you, Madam Speaker, that Archbishop Tutu was not lost with words or passion. He said, ``I am not interested in picking up crumbs of compassion thrown from the table of someone who considers himself my master. I want the full menu of rights.'' He is a man of immense courage and vision. He has long served as the moral voice of the oppressed populations. No one who has ever met, spoken to, or worked with Archbishop Tutu is the same afterwards. 
   He is, of course, linked with Father Mandela, arm in arm as Father Mandela maintained his life and his integrity for 29 years. It was Bishop Tutu who had a voice, steering the religious and faith community away from its closed attitude to open to the Beatitudes, that, in fact, ``Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy.'' Bishop Tutu believed in that. 
   As a tireless advocate for ending discrimination, Desmond Tutu's career is truly extraordinary. In 1975 he became the first black African Dean of Mary's Cathedral in Johannesburg, South Africa. From 1976 to 1978, he served as the Secretary-General of the South African Council of Churches, once again being the first black African to do so. He went on to head South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission from 1996 to 1998, investigating prior apartheid-related crimes. 
   It would be interesting if we were at that point in Iraq, but we must set the picture of what it means to bring together a commission that addresses the pain and hurt, brutality and devastation of black Africans, South Africans, at the hands of apartheid. It was not easy. It would have been better to sit in accusatory fashion, point fingers, and never resolve. But it was the calm demeanor, the spirit, the religious faith of Bishop Tutu that allowed this process to go forward and to allow it to go forward as others have now looked back and said, well done, well done. 
   Archbishop Tutu is perhaps best known for his courageous opposition to the internationally condemned apartheid regime that persisted in his homeland until democratic elections were finally held in 1994. It was for his nonviolent struggle in opposition to apartheid that he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 in recognition of his courage, heroism, and peaceful methods. The Nobel committee called him a ``unifying leader-figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa.'' The committee went on to state, ``the means by which this campaign is conducted is of vital importance for the whole of the continent of Africa and for the cause of peace in the world.'' In a press release discussing the award, the Nobel committee wrote, ``This year's award should be seen as a renewed recognition of the courage and heroism shown by black South Africans in their use of peaceful methods in the struggle against apartheid.'' 
   How wonderful it would be if the conflicts around the world and in the Middle East would follow this straight and narrow path of a peaceful opposition. 
   ``This recognition is also directed to all who throughout the world use such methods to stand in the vanguard of  the campaign for racial equality as a human right.'' 
   In recognition of his vast intellectual ability, Desmond Tutu has received numerous honorary doctorates from several universities, including Harvard, Kent, Columbia, Aberdeen, and Howard. Let me also indicate as well that he has won the Order of Meritorious Gold Award; the Martin Luther King, Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize; and a number of others. 
   He has also been a survivor of cancer. He is someone who has never stopped teaching, working, and understanding. 
   And for those of us who are products of America's civil rights movement, I thought would be appropriate to bring to light and to attention the reflection of two giants: Rosa Parks and Archbishop Tutu, to bring together the trials and tribulations, the struggles of African Americans in the United States with someone who fully understood what struggle was all about. 
   I am delighted to join with my colleagues asking for your full support in honoring Archbishop Desmond Mpilo Tutu, a man who stood between the schism of two oceans, bringing America and Africa together through the idea of unity, peace, generosity, justice, and opportunity for all. 
   Congratulations, Bishop Tutu. I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 34, which honors the life and accomplishments of Desmond Mpilo Tutu, South African Archbishop of Cape Town and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. I have been pleased to work with the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this important legislation, and I would like to thank Chairman LANTOS for his support for this legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, Archbishop Tutu once stated, ``I am not interested in picking up crumbs of compassion thrown from the table of someone who considers himself my master. I want the full menu of rights.'' He is a man of immense courage and vision, and he has long served as the moral voice of oppressed populations. No one who has ever met, spoken to, or worked with Archbishop Tutu is the same afterwards. 
   As a tireless advocate of ending discrimination, Desmond Tutu's career is truly extraordinary. In 1975, he became the first black African Dean of Mary's Cathedral, in Johannesburg, South Africa. From 1976-1978, he served as the Secretary-General of the South African Council of Churches; once again, being the first black African to do so. He went on to head South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission from 1996-1998, investigating prior apartheid related crimes. 
   Archbishop Tutu is perhaps best known for his courageous opposition to the internationally-condemned apartheid regime that persisted in his homeland until democratic elections were finally held in 1994. It was for his non-violent struggle in opposition to apartheid that he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, in recognition of his courage, heroism, and peaceful methods. The Nobel committee called him a ``unifying leader-figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa.'' The committee went on to state, ``the means by which this campaign is conducted is of vital importance for the whole of the continent of Africa and for the cause of peace in the world.'' In a press release discussing the award, the Nobel committee wrote, ``This year's award should be seen as a renewed recognition of the courage and heroism shown by black South Africans in their use of peaceful methods in the struggle against apartheid. This recognition is also directed to all who, throughout the world, use such methods to stand in the vanguard of the campaign for racial equality as a human right.'' 
   In recognition of his vast intellectual ability, Desmond Tutu has received numerous honorary doctorates from several universities including Harvard, Kent, Colombia, Aberdeen, and Howard. In addition to the Nobel Peace Prize, Archbishop Tutu has received numerous other prestigious awards, including the Order of Meritorious Gold Award, Martin Luther King, Jr. Non-Violent Peace Prize, the Archbishop of Canterbury's Award for Outstanding Service to the Anglican Communion, Prix d'Athene, Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism, Maguebela Prize for Liberty, as well as the International Gandhi Peace Prize. 
   Archbishop Desmond Mpilo Tutu will celebrate his 76th birthday on October 7, 2007. This legislation recognizes this important date, honors his accomplishments, and extols the contributions that he has made to South Africa, the United States, and to the international community. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing the life and accomplishments of this truly extraordinary man. I conclude with another quote from Archbishop Tutu: ``If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor. If an elephant has its foot on the tail of a mouse and you say that you are neutral, the mouse will not appreciate your neutrality.'' Archbishop Tutu has spent his life in defense of the mouse, and his work has proven that, with proper pressure and leverage, the elephant can be forced to move.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JOHN HERSCHEL GLENN, JR. POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Spaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 3052, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 954 Wheeling Avenue in Cambridge, Ohio as the ``John Herschel Glenn, Jr. Post Office Building.'' I agree with Congressmen SPACE and TIBERI that it is long overdue for us to finally pay fitting tribute to an American hero who answered the call of service so many times, while asking nothing in return. 
   John Glenn's life is truly an American story. Born in Cambridge, Ohio in 1921 and raised in New Concord, John Glenn spent his early years in Ohio. After graduating with a baccalaureate degree in engineering from Muskingum College, John Glenn began his distinguished military career as a Marine and fighter pilot. He flew 149 combat missions, in both World War II and the Korean War, earning the Distinguished Flying Cross six times. 
   But more than his impressive record of military service, John Glenn will always be best known for his contributions to our nation's space exploration program. Glenn's experience and skill made him a logical candidate for the astronaut corps being formed during 1958. On February 20, 1962, Glenn piloted the Mercury-Atlas 6 ``Friendship 7'' spacecraft on the first manned orbital mission of the United States. This endeavor was a critical political and scientific milestone. It revolutionized the perspective of the American people and instilled public faith in the fledgling space program, which at that time was lagging behind the Soviets in the ``Space Race.'' As a Member of Congress from the Houston area, the home of the Johnson Space Center, I personally want to think John Glenn for this great 
   achievement. John Glenn always had the ``Right Stuff,'' as the writer Tom Wolfe so aptly put it. 
   After his famous flight, John Glenn returned to his home state of Ohio and went on to serve the state with distinction and honor in United States Senate. In his four terms in the Senate, John Glenn took a leading role in the effort to reduce nuclear weapons and government affairs. He was chief author of the 1978 Nuclear Nonproliferation Act, served as chairman of the Senate Government Affairs Committee from 1978 until 1995, and was a leading member of the Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees and the Special Committee on Aging. Always willing to serve his country, John Glenn waged a spirited contest for his party's presidential nomination in 1984. 
   In February 1997, John Glenn announced that he would retire from the Senate. A year later, NASA requested him to rejoin the space program he had helped to create as a member of the Space Shuttle Discovery Crew. John Glenn accepted the invitation and on October 29, 1998, at age 77, became the oldest human ever to venture into space. This voyage to outer space was no mere publicity stunt, however, thanks to John Glenn; NASA scientists gained much valuable information. Senator Glenn conducted the Canadian Space Agency's OSTEO (Osteoarthritis) experiment on board the Space Shuttle Discovery during the mission which contributed to our understanding of the aging process. The OSTEO experiment studied the underlying processes of bone loss and evaluated treatments. The research, supervised by John Glenn, was ideally suited for the space environment, as bone loss in space is four to ten times faster than during osteoporosis on Earth. The experiment demonstrated how bone mineralization decreases during space flight and also showed that a specific therapeutic agent, called recombinant human parathyroid hormone (PTH), is able to reverse this loss. The experiments were such a success, that the Canadian Space Agency is developing follow-up experiments on future space missions. 
   Madam Speaker, I would again like to voice my support for H.R. 3052, and finally give back something to a man that has already given so much to his country. ``God Speed, John Glenn.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING JUNETEENTH INDEPENDENCE DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from New  York, and I thank the original author of this legislation, the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Davis), and I thank the distinguished Speaker for her leadership as well, and my colleagues. 
   Congressman Higgins, this is Juneteenth Week for those of us who come from the States in which we honor this very special holiday. And so it is very special to stand today to acknowledge how important, how moving a time this is, particularly in the State of Texas where Major Granger landed in Galveston 2 years after the Emancipation Proclamation, which means that the slaves that were held in the State of Texas were held 2 years longer than any slaves in the United States in the region in which slavery was the law. I would like to acknowledge Rep. Al Edwards who is the Father of the Juneteenth Holiday in Texas. 
   So we hold this as a sacred time, a time of jubilee and celebration, but also of pain and anguish for knowing that we were held in bondage in the State of Texas for a period of time longer than the time that was declared by the President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln. 
   I'm delighted to be one of the original cosponsors to acknowledge what this day really means. And as we celebrate it throughout the week in Texas, this past weekend I celebrated with the Acres Home Community and their Juneteenth celebration and the Zydeco music and the fun that seniors and children alike would have in fellowship and understanding our history. 
   And many people don't recognize that it is as important a date as might be days that we commemorate Black History Month, special days such as the acknowledgment and the celebration of the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, or the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights bill or the March on Washington or the tragic assassination of Dr. King, and this happens to be the 40th year. 
   It is a time when we renew ourselves in having a respect for freedom. And Major Granger, who came and acknowledged, gave way to decades and years of celebration. 
   He also gave way to something called Freedom Watch on New Year's Eve. Many people believe that is a celebration for the new year. But in old years or years back, black churches used to watch on New Year's Eve calling it Freedom Watch to be able to celebrate freedom; and it was the idea of knowing that on January 1, 1863, the slaves would be free. 
   This is a time to acknowledge that our history should be remembered, that we should teach it to our children, that we should take this history to ourselves, if we will, embed it in our hearts and our souls, and make sure that as we embed it, that we live what this history stands for. It stands for determination, tenacity, strength, character, integrity. 
   And we must fight against all of these things that enslave us now, and that is, of course, drugs and crime and poverty. And I hope that this Congress, in passing this legislation, will renew our commitment to ridding this Nation of drugs and the devastation of how it destroys families and that we will commit ourselves to building housing, we will commit ourselves to educating our children, we will commit ourselves to building our families, we will commit ourselves to peace, because that's what an emancipation means: Emancipating yourselves from things that were wrong, that were ill. 
   The Emancipation Proclamation rid this Nation of slavery. Its dastardly effects still continue even today as it separates races and religions, but we have a commitment as the United States Congress to use this floor today to be able to stand against what was a horrific time in the history of America where we held slaves, we debased them, and we rejected humanity and human rights and dignity; but now we must come and respect through this resolution. 
   So I thank the Congressman for his leadership on managing this bill. I particularly pay tribute to my colleague and friend, Congressman DANNY DAVIS, and to all of my constituents in the State of Texas who will now celebrate this day with a gospel celebration on Saturday, a parade on Saturday, and many, many family reunions around the idea of being emancipated. 
   Let us live freedom. Let us stand for freedom by building this Nation free of the ills of drugs and poor housing and poverty and war, and that will truly be a commemoration of Juneteenth because Juneteenth is a freedom, and it is emancipation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GRANTING A FEDERAL CHARTER TO KOREAN WAR VETERANS ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume. 
   Madam Speaker, let me rise in appreciation to the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Conyers, and the ranking member, Mr. Smith, in working with the Senate and working with the staff on this very important initiative. And I would like to acknowledge both former Senator Sarbanes, Senator Cardin, and of course our very, very able and distinguished and dedicated Majority Leader Hoyer in collaboration with Congressman Sarbanes to have this legislation, S. 1692, move, which is to create the Korean War Veterans Association to become a Federally tax-exempt organization. It was a Federally tax-exempt corporation that was incorporated in the State of New York on June 25, 1985. And now this bill will grant a Federal charter to the Korean War Veterans Association. 
   The veterans association is an association of persons who have seen honorable service during the Korean War at any time between June 25, 1950 and January 31, 1955, both dates inclusive, and of certain other persons, the particular qualifications for membership to be set forth in the bylaws of the Korean War Veterans Association. 
   Over the years, the organization has established a strong record of service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans ranging from the efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to a successful effort to construct a national Korean War veterans memorial on the National Mall. 
   I certainly personally want to thank my friend and colleague from Texas, Congressman Sam Johnson, who has never wavered from his commitment and dedication to the men and women of the United States military, to his love of Texas, and certainly to his particular love of those who served in the Korean War as he did, along with his service in the Vietnam War. 
   He made mention of our friends and colleagues, Congressman JOHN CONYERS and Congressman CHARLIE RANGEL. So today we honor them as we honor many, many of those who served. The Korean War, often overlooked in American history, is anything but forgotten by the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War still alive today. And during the 3-year course of the war, some 5.7 million Americans were called to serve.  
   And by the time the Korean War Armistice Agreement was signed in July 1953, more than 36,000 Americans sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were wounded, 7,140 were captured and 664 were missing. And so we know it was, in fact, a war that saw a painful time in American history but yet saw the valiant effort of our American soldiers. 
   American troops fought to protect our freedom as we know it today and paved the way for the United States to vanguard the movement for global democracy and liberty, a movement that afforded many countries the opportunity to shift to democratic regimes. 
   And so it is a special honor to me to able to stand today and join my colleagues, to be able to support this legislation, S. 1692. I would ask my colleagues to support this legislation and be reminded that no war should ever be forgotten. We stand here today to acknowledge that the Korean War is not forgotten, and as well, that we will have the opportunity to celebrate in the passing of this legislation. 
   With that, Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote for S. 1692.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S.1692, a bill to grant a Federal charter to the Korean War Veterans Association. This legislation honors the sacrifice and courage of our soldiers who served in the Korean War. My distinguished colleague from Maryland, Senator BENJAMIN L. CARDIN and the Majority Leader STENY HOYER seek to recognize the heroic deeds of Korean War veterans by granting the Korean War Veterans Association Incorporated a Federal Charter. 
   The Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA) is a federally-tax exempt organization that was incorporated in the State of New York on June 25, 1985. Its original founder was Mr. William T. Norris, of New York, a member of F Company, 27th Infantry Regiment (Wolfhounds), 25th Infantry Division, when he served as a sergeant in the Korean War. 
   This legislation provides an opportunity for each of us, regardless of political views, religion, ethnicity, gender, or background to come together, and to recognize and honor our nation's heroes. We gather here today, in the midst of ongoing conflict and warfare, honoring the dedication of our men and women in uniform. Though we may be divided by our positions on the war in Iraq, we stand together to support all of our veterans, highlighting in this particular legislation those who fought in the Korean War. 
   Our nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the men and women who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We must be united in seeing to it that every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine is welcomed back with all the care and compassion this grateful nation can bestow. S.1692 assists us in these endeavors by extending a small gesture of gratitude that grants a federal charter to an organization that promotes and maintains benevolent and charitable endeavors. The Korean War Veterans Association is an association of persons who have seen honorable service during the Korean War at any time between June 25, 1950 and 31 January 1955, both dates inclusive, and of certain other persons, the particular qualifications for membership to be set forth in the by-laws of the Korean War Veterans Association. Over the years, the organization has established a strong record of service and commitment to fellow Korean War veterans, ranging from efforts on behalf of Project Freedom to its successful effort to construct a national Korean War Veterans Memorial on the National Mall. 
   The Korean War, often overlooked in American history, is anything but forgotten by the nearly 1.2 million American veterans of the Korean War still alive today. During the three year course of the war, some 5.7 million Americans were called to serve, and by the time the Korean Armistice Agreement was signed in July 1953, more than 36,000 Americans sacrificed their lives, 103,284 were wounded, 7,140 were captured and 664 were missing. 
   American troops fought to protect our freedom as we know it today and paved the way for the United States to vanguard the movement for global democracy and liberty; a movement that afforded many countries the opportunity to shift to democratic regimes. 
   Sadly, all too many of our veterans are left without the help and support they need to transition from the horrors they bravely faced on the front lines of battle to a successful civilian life. According to the Veteran's Affairs Department, as of 2006, on any given night, 196,000 veterans of all ages were homeless. As we work to curb this formidable reality, let us demonstrate our support for the veterans of the Korean War by supporting this legislation. This should encourage us to continue to honor this nation's troops who are fighting and who have fought for the rights of all of us in places we do not dare to go, under environments we cannot fully appreciate from this comfortable position. 
   I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans after every conflict, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to both meeting the needs of veterans of previous wars, and to provide a fitting welcome home to those who are now serving. Veterans have kept their promise to serve our nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. 
   I have always been a strong supporter of our country's troops, male and female. That is why I introduced the House Concurrent Resolution 320 which celebrates one of our heroic daughters of Texas, Specialist Monica L. Brown of the United States Army with for her efforts earlier this year. 
   Spec. Brown was the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the nation's third-highest medal for valor. This soldier from Lake Jackson, Texas was only 20-years-old. 
   On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the Humvees. 
   When Spec. Brown saw her fellow soldiers were injured, she grabbed her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as insurgents opened fire. All five wounded soldiers from her platoon scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving incoming fire. 
   Other veteran's legislation that I am pursuing entails guaranteeing that our VA hospitals have the capacity to efficiently and effectively meet the needs of our troops. The Riverside Hospital in Houston, Texas is a historic medical center that has served the needs of veterans in the Houston area for a long time. However, currently, the hospital is lacking the tools necessary to treat the augmenting number of troops who suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other common problems associated with fighting in battle. Today, at this very second let us take a united stand for the well being of our veterans; to say the very least, they deserve it and to say the most; we've promised it. 
   This attests to the fact that we must now ensure that we keep our promises to our veterans by extending our gratitude and appreciation. Currently, there are over 25 million veterans in the United States. There are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I hope we will all take the time to show appreciation to those who have answered the call to duty. As the Winston Churchill famously stated, ``Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' This recognition for our nation's Korean War Veterans is long overdue, and it is a small expression of appreciation our nation can offer to these men and women, and it will enable them to ensure that the ``Forgotten War'' is forgotten no more. 
   Madam Speaker, as we approach the 55th anniversary of the Korean War Armistice, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting and serving those who have served this nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REVISING SHORT TITLE OF THE FANNIE LOU HAMER, ROSA PARKS, AND CORETTA SCOTT KING VOTING RIGHTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION AND AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the Senate bill (S. 188) to revise the short title of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. 
   The Clerk read the title of the Senate bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REVISING SHORT TITLE OF THE FANNIE LOU HAMER, ROSA PARKS, AND CORETTA SCOTT KING VOTING RIGHTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION AND AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2006 -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. And I now yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of S. 188, a companion bill to H.R. 6250, providing for revising the short title of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. 
   On January 31, 2007, I introduced H.R. 745 to add Barbara Jordan and Cesar Chavez. On June 12, 2008, I authored and introduced the House companion to S. 188, H.R. 6250, in order to add numbers of individuals who deserve the recognition of this legislation. 
   I would like to thank Senator Salazar on the Senate side for his leadership on this issue. And certainly I would like to thank the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Conyers, and the ranking member, Mr. Smith, for their leadership and collaboration, along with the chairman and ranking member of the subcommittee. I also want to thank Mr. Keenan Keller of the Judiciary Committee staff and all the staff who worked with him, Mr. Yohannes Tsehai and Mr. Arthur D. Sidney of my staff, for their work on the House bill and for their work on bringing this bill as quickly as possible to the floor. 
   The bill before us adds the names of Cesar E. Chavez, Barbara C. Jordan, William C. Velasquez and Dr. Hector P. Garcia to the short title. It is only an addition of names. It is not a deletion of any names. It is adding to the name portion of the bill only. 
   These great people are pillars in the Nation's struggle for civil rights, equality and justice for all, and I strongly support the bill. 
   Allow me, Madam Speaker, to share the humble beginnings of all of the individuals that have come before us to be named now to this very important bill, a bill of which we know was really borne in the sweat and tears of those who struggled in the civil rights movement. Many lost their lives in this battle. This reauthorization that occurred in the last session, and the session before is a testimony to the struggle. 
   Cesar Estrada Chavez was born of humble beginnings on March 31, 1927, in Yuma, Arizona. Early in his life, Mr. Chavez was forced to recognize the harsh realities of racism that all too often plagued communities of color. After his family's home and land were taken from them, Mr. Chavez knew firsthand what it meant to be a victim of gross injustice. Yet despite this and similar experiences of discrimination, Mr. Chavez was not deterred. He often said that ``the love for justice that is in us is not only the best part of our being but also the most true to our nature.'' 
   At only 10 years old, Mr. Chavez became a migrant farmworker. He attended 38 different schools before quitting at the end of the eighth grade to support his family full time. 
   In 1945, he joined the U.S. Navy and served in the western Pacific during the end of World War II. After completing his military service, Mr. Chavez returned to his roots, laboring in the fields. 
   Mr. Chavez was unwavering in his activities in voter registration campaigns. He is truly warranting of this honor today. 
   By day, Mr. Chavez picked apricots in an orchard outside of San Jose. And be reminded that he served in the United States Navy. But he picked apricots in this orchard, and by night he was actively involved in galvanizing voter registration drives. In 1952, Mr. Chavez was a full-time organizer with the Chicago-based Community Service Organization (CSO), not only coordinating voter registration drives, but battling racial and economic discrimination against Chicano residents and organizing CSO chapters across California and Arizona, as well. 
   In 1968, Chavez conducted a 25-day fast to reaffirm the United Farm Workers' commitment to non-violence. In the process, Mr. Chavez gained the support of the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy and was propelled onto the national political scene. Kennedy called Cesar Chavez ``one of the heroic figures of our time'' and actually flew to be with Mr. Chavez when he ended his fast. 
   On August 8, 1994, Mr. Chavez became the second Mexican American to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States. The award was presented posthumously by then-President Bill Clinton. 
   Mr. Chavez dedicated his life to improving the working conditions for the poor and exploited. He worked on behalf of the migrant workers in the western United States. He worked also tirelessly to ensure that Hispanic Americans were involved in the political process. He is deserving of this honor. And we commend him as we move this legislation forward.  
   The next named person to have her name listed on the Voting Rights bill is Barbara Charline Jordan. Congresswoman Jordan was a friend to many, a mentor to me, and an icon. The late honorable Congresswoman Barbara Jordan represented the 18th Congressional District. She was the maiden holder of this seat. After this opportunity was given through the Voting Rights Act of 1965, I am now privileged to serve, and she was one of the first two African Americans from the South to be elected to the House of Representatives since Reconstruction. 
   Barbara Jordan was known for her eloquence but also to many for her quiet thoughtfulness and seriousness in the legislative process. Barbara Jordan was a renaissance woman, eloquent, fearless and peerless in her pursuit of justice and equality. 
   I pay tribute also to her sister who has carried on her legacy by presenting herself to the public and helping people understand Barbara's legacy, that is to a dear friend, Ms. Rosemary McGowan, who lives in Houston, Texas, today. All of her family grew up and lived in Fifth Ward, and we were with them just a few weeks ago when they showed us the remnants of where they lived. It is now railroad tracks. But we will never have their history extinguished. 
   Barbara Jordan exhorted all of us to strive for the excellence, stand fast for justice and fairness, and yield to no one in the manner of defending the Constitution and upholding the most sacred principles of a democratic government. To Barbara Jordan, the Constitution was a very profound document, one to be upheld. 
   On January 17, 1996, Barbara Jordan died too early, at the young age of 59. On that day, Texas and the Nation lost one of its finest daughters, a woman who had served the people of Houston and Harris County in State and national government for over a decade. And with Barbara Jordan's passing, America lost one of its finest citizens. 
   Barbara Jordan's voice and eloquence was one of a kind, and so was she. 
   From her outspokenness during Watergate, to her ethics back in Texas to improve transparency, accountability and ethics in government, no stand was too controversial or too unpopular for Barbara Jordan to take. If she believed that it was the right thing to do, she did it. She was not afraid to take unpopular stands. And she often ruffled the feathers of friends and foes alike. 
   The Washington Post, too, half-jokingly described Barbara Jordan as ``the first black woman everything.'' And a Cosmopolitan magazine survey of 700 political opinions in 1975 put Jordan at the top of the list of women they would like to see become President. 
   And in 1966 she became the first African American woman elected to the Texas State Senate. She was the only woman in that legislative session. 
   In 1972, she came to the United States Congress. She worked on worker's compensation and she also amended the Voting Rights Act to include Mexican Americans in Texas and other southwestern States and to extend its authorities to those States where minorities had been denied the right to vote.     
   She obviously was renowned for her Watergate work and also her 1976 speech to the Democratic Convention. One of Professor Jordan's colleagues paid her the ultimate compliment. ``She pushed her students. She said, `You know, you have an obligation. You owe something for what you have, and you need to pay it back.' '' That was Barbara Jordan, continuing to give public service. 
   She ended her life as a professor at the Lyndon Baines Johnson School. In the tradition of Frederick Douglass, Martin Luther King and Thurgood Marshall, she believed that the Constitution should be upheld. 
   We honor her, deservedly so, by naming her to the Voting Rights Act of 1965, reauthorized. 
   The next named person is William C. Velasquez, also a Texan, affectionately known as ``Willie.'' He paved the way for his generation and future generations of Hispanics to empower themselves through voter registration, political empowerment, economic self-reliance and education. 
   Mr. Velasquez was one of the founding members of the Mexican American Youth Organization, MAYO, a Chicano youth organization aimed at social action. His role in MAYO led to his becoming Texas' first statewide coordinator of the El Movimiento Social de la Raza Unida, the precursor of La Raza Unida Party. His involvement with the Latino organization was extensive. In 1968, as boycott coordinator for the United Farm Workers, he organized strikes in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas. 
   After leaving the UFW, he became the founder and director of the Mexican-American Unity Council in San Antonio, Texas. In 1970, he was named field director of the Southwest Council of La Raza. 
   From 1972 to July 1974, he concentrated his efforts on building the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project. That is what so many of us know him for, SVREP. Little notice was given when Velasquez opened the doors to SVREP in 1974, seated on a folding chair behind a small desk calling from a borrowed rotary telephone to spur Mexican Americans into politics. 
   Mr. Velasquez's work of empowering all Americans through political participation by his nonpartisan voter registration, voter education, candidate training, get-out-the-vote efforts, this work of SVREP continues as it began through his work. He enlisted the aid of community organizers. Together they launched hundreds of voter registration and get-out-the-vote GOTV campaigns throughout the Southwest. 
   The legacy of Mr. Velasquez is apparent. Since its inception, his organization has cultivated 50,000 community leaders, successfully litigated 85 voting rights lawsuits, and has conducted 2,300 nonpartisan voter registration and GOTV campaigns. Consequently, voter registration has grown over the years from 2.4 million registered Latinos in 1974 to almost 12 million nationwide. 
   Upon news of his death, the Congress adjourned its session for the day, symbolically illustrating his single-handed effect on our political process. President Clinton posthumously awarded Mr. Velasquez the Presidential Medal of Freedom, stating that he was driven by an unwavering belief that every American should have a role in our democracy and share in the opportunities of our great Nation, adding that Mr. Velasquez made this a greater country. 
   I agree with him. It is for this reason, Madam Speaker, that we are honored today to be able to add Mr. William ``Willie'' C. Velasquez in the short title of the Voting Rights Act, now reauthorized, but the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
   Our next named person, Dr. Hector P. Garcia, was an interesting and strong Texan. Dr. Hector P. Garcia was a Mexican immigrant who became a doctor, soldier, war hero and presidential confidante. He dedicated his life to advocating for the education, civil rights, labor rights and human rights of our community by struggling against racism and injustice. His life is an example for the younger generation. 
   Dr. Garcia received many honors during his life-long fight for veterans rights. He is a giant in Texas. He is well-known, as we have found, throughout the Nation, throughout the veterans efforts that have come about, particularly representing Latinos. He is a giant. His fight for veterans rights and his struggle against discrimination in housing, education and voting rights is renowned. 
   In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson made him the first Mexican to serve on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Johnson also appointed him Alternate Ambassador to the United Nations to promote better relations with Latin America and Spain. Dr. Garcia served Presidents John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter as an adviser. 
   President Ronald Reagan awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Nation's highest civilian honor. Pope John Paul II recognized him with the Equestrian Order of Pope Gregory the Great. President Clinton eulogized him as a national hero. 
   The Treasury Department's new $75 Series I U.S. Savings Bond bears Dr. Garcia's portrait. The eight Americans depicted on the bonds, which debuted on September 1, 2007, were chosen for their individual achievements and service, and, for the first time, to reflect the Nation's racial and ethnic diversity. Dr. Garcia is the only Hispanic. Other honorees include General George C. Marshall and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King.  
   Congress honored Dr. Garcia, who died on July 26, 1996, at the age of 82, by passing a bill in August 1996 that made the American G.I. Forum a Congressionally chartered veterans organization. Dr. Garcia founded the organization in 1948, and today it is the Nation's largest Hispanic veterans group. The charter status recognizes the G.I. Forum as a peer of the American Legion. 
   Dr. Garcia was born in a Mexican village in 1914 to a college professor and a schoolteacher. They fled to Texas in 1918 to escape the Mexican Revolution. He was one of seven children, six of whom became doctors. He graduated from the University of Texas Medical School, joined the Army in World War II and served in North Africa and Italy as an infantryman and combat engineer until the Army officials found out that he was a doctor. He earned the Bronze Star Medal with six battle stars in Italy. 
   A disturbing incident in 1949 convinced Dr. Garcia that the Forum needed to fight for more than veterans rights. Army Private Felix Longoria was killed on June 14, 1945, while on patrol in the Philippines to flush out retreating Japanese. It took nearly four years to identify and return his remains to his family. A funeral director in Three Rivers, Texas, told the family that the Anglo community wouldn't stand for his remains to lie in the chapel for a wake, but he offered to arrange for Longoria's burial in the segregated Mexican cemetery separated by barbed wire. 
   Private Longoria's widow called Dr. Garcia for help, who then contacted the funeral home and asked permission to use the chapel. The director told him no Mexican American had ever used the chapel and he wouldn't allow it because it might offend the whites. Dr. Garcia went on to talk about this issue and to fight against it, and ultimately he prevailed when many noticed that the State of Texas, which loomed so large on the map, looked so small tonight. 
   So within 24 hours the founder of the newly organized American G.I. Forum received a telegram from then Senator Lyndon B. Johnson, who expressed his regret about what occurred, and therefore he made arrangements to have Felix Longoria buried with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia. 
   This is truly a story of a hero, and that is why we stand today to acknowledge Hector P. Garcia, who will be named to the short title of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. He will join these heroes, Cesar Chavez, Barbara Jordan, Willie Velasquez, and now Dr. Hector P. Garcia, for he has fought for those who could not speak for themselves to in essence have the opportunity to vote. 
   Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation in honor of these magnificent individuals.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of S. 188, to revise the short title of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. On January 31, 2007, I introduced H.R. 745 to add Barbara Jordan and Cesar Chavez. On June 12, 2008, I authored and introduced the House companion, H.R. 6250 to S. 188. I want to commend the author on the Senate side, Senator Salazar. 
   I would like to thank Mr. Keenan Keller, and Mr. Yohannes Tsehai and Mr. Arthur D. Sidney of my staff for their work on the House bill and for their work on bringing this bill quickly to the floor. The bill before us adds the names of Cesar E. Chavez, Barbara C. Jordan, William C. Velasquez, and Dr. Hector P. Garcia to the short title. These great people are pillars in the nation's struggle for civil rights, equality, and justice for all. I strongly support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ANDREW L. JEFFERSON ENDOWMENT FOR TRIAL ADVOCACY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 31) recognizing the Honorable Andrew L. Jefferson, Jr., on the occasion of the establishment of an endowment for trial advocacy called the ``Andrew L. Jefferson Endowment for Trial Advocacy'' at Texas Southern University's Thurgood Marshall School of Law in Houston, Texas. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ANDREW L. JEFFERSON ENDOWMENT FOR TRIAL ADVOCACY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, it is a true honor to have the opportunity to sometimes honor those who are quiet giants, who represent the embodiment of the best of America, those who have pulled themselves up by their bootstraps, and to have the success story written by their own pen, by their own ink. So I rise today to honor a great Texan, a great civil rights advocate and a great American. The resolution recognizes a great legal scholar, as well as a great institution of legal education located in Houston, Texas. 
   Judge Andrew Jefferson is the embodiment of scholarship, of toughness, of respect, of fairness. He is respected by members of our community, Republicans and Democrats alike. He is respected by members, icons themselves, of the Texas Bar, and well-known around the Nation. He is cherished by the National Bar Association, the Houston Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and as well he is cherished by Texas Southern University and the Thurgood Marshall School of Law. 
   This scholar is Judge Andrew L. Jefferson, and the institution that he cherishes is the Thurgood Marshall School of Law at Texas Southern University. Both embody the spirit of legal excellence and public service. 
   As we talked this day on the celebration of Juneteenth, I am reminded of Representative Al Edwards, who organized Juneteenth, and we have celebrated under his leadership for 29 years. Juneteenth, as I indicated, was about freedom, and Judge Jefferson connotes freedom. 
   Andrew L. Jefferson, a native of Dallas, Texas, graduated from the University of Texas School of Law in 1959. After earning his Bachelor's Degree from Texas Southern University, he was the President of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity and rose to become a partner at the law firm of Washington and Jefferson, Attorneys at Law, in Houston. He has served as an assistant criminal district attorney for Bexar County. These, Madam Speaker, were jobs that he was able to secure with his own talents way before integration came to the south. 
   He was a Chief Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas. He was a pioneer for young lawyers, a pioneer in going in places in the law where African American lawyers could not go. In Houston, Texas, African American lawyers could not use the law library. They could not eat in the cafeteria. And, of course, he was a trial counsel and labor relations counsel for Humble Oil and Refining Company, the predecessor to Exxon. 
   Each time, he was a pioneer, he explored new ground, and certainly as an African American getting his degrees in the late 1950s going through the 1960s before the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1965 and the Voting Rights Act, he truly braved new areas and stood for the dignity and respect of all in our community. 
   Judge Jefferson served in the Judge Advocate General Corps in the United States Army Reserve. He was honorably discharged as a captain. Mind you, he was pioneering and doing all of this in the early days of the 1950s and 1960s. 
   He has as his lovely bride another civic leader, Mary Jefferson, who I spoke to just last evening. I sent her my best greetings and those to Judge Jefferson, who is mending. We wish him a speedy recovery. 
   But we also know he has strength and determination and is a role model to many. Mary Jefferson, his partner of many years, has served on many organizations herself. She is a strong advocate for quality education for our youth and for more opportunities for young people to go to college by expanding financial access, and she is a fighter for civil rights herself. She is a long-standing member of the Links in Houston.     
   A longtime, active committee member of the State Bar of Texas, Judge Jefferson is also a fellow of the Texas Bar Foundation, a member of the American Bar Foundation, of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association, and of the Texas Constitutional Revision Commission. This outstanding jurist, who is renowned for his expertise in legal practice, has been a highly sought after speaker throughout his career and has frequently shared his experience and knowledge with the Criminal Law Institute for the Houston Bar Association, with the San Antonio Bar Association, and he has spoken in many places. He served on the board of the Houston branch of the Federal Reserve Bank and of the Texas Southern University Foundation. 
   I remind my colleagues that Texas Southern University was borne out of discrimination when individuals in the State of Texas could not go to the University of Texas, as evidenced by the Heman Sweatt lawsuit. 
   He has received numerous awards and honors, among them the Anti-Defamation League's National Torch of Liberty Award, the Forward Times Community Service Award, the League of United Latin American Citizens National Community Service Award, and the Community Service Award from La Raza. In addition, he was the Presidential nominee to sit on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
   To honor Judge Jefferson on this occasion will be momentous for the City of Houston, for Texas Southern University and for minorities worldwide who aspire to study and practice law. 
   I congratulate Judge Jefferson for the life that he has led, for the young people whom he has been able to lead. Through his great service, the Texas Southern University Law School, the Thurgood Marshall School of Law, has established a trial advocacy program that will be in his name at the Thurgood Marshall School of Law, and it will be because of what he did for those he stood by and for those he managed to lead and to inspire. 
   Judge Jefferson was a good friend and advisor to Barbara Jordan. He ran many campaigns, but as he continues to live his life, he will be renowned and will continue to be known for fighting for equality, for civil rights, for standing tall, and for never stepping away from a tough fight. 
   So, as we acknowledge Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, I will say that he is the person who stood by her as she sought to expand the Voting Rights Act in her time in Congress. 
   Judge Jefferson: A leader, a role model, a civil rights fighter, along with his wife, Mary Jefferson, icons of our community, patriots, and great Americans. 
   I ask my colleagues to support the legislation H. Res. 31. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ANDREW L. JEFFERSON ENDOWMENT FOR TRIAL ADVOCACY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me close by indicating  that Judge Jefferson is to be honored today for many reasons, but I hope one of the strongest reasons will be his ability to work with young lawyers and the excellent service that he gave as a member of the State bench. 
   For those reasons, along with his commitment to civil rights and voter rights, I ask my colleagues to enthusiastically support H. Res. 31, recognizing the Honorable Andrew L. Jefferson.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a great Texan, a great civil rights advocate, and a great American. My resolution recognizes a great legal scholar, as well as a great institution of legal education located in the 18th Congressional District of Texas. 
   The scholar is Judge Andrew L. Jefferson, and the institution is the Thurgood Marshall School of Law at Texas Southern University. Both embody the spirit of the legal excellence and public service. 
   Andrew L. Jefferson, a native of Dallas, Texas, graduated from the University of Texas School of Law in 1959, after earning his Bachelor's degree from Texas Southern University. 
   He was president of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, and rose to became a partner with Washington and Jefferson, Attorneys at Law, in Houston. 
   He has served as an assistant criminal district attorney for Bexar Country, a chief assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas, and a trial counsel and labor relations counsel for Humble Oil and Refining Company. 
   Each time, he was a pioneer, he explored new ground, and certainly as an African American, getting his degrees in the late 1950s, going through the 1960s before the passage of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 and 1965, and the Voting Rights Act, he truly braved new areas and stood for the dignity and respect of all in our community. 
   Judge Jefferson served in the Judge Advocate General Corps in the U.S. Army Reserve, where he was honorably discharged as a captain. 
   He has as his lovely bride another civic leader, Mary Jefferson, who I have the pleasure of serving with on a number of organizations. She advocates for quality education for our youth, and for more opportunities for young people to go to college by expanding financial access. 
   A long-time active committee member of the State Bar of Texas, Judge Jefferson is also a Fellow of the Texas Bar Foundation, a member of the American Bar Foundation, the Texas Trial Lawyers Association, and the Texas Constitutional Revision Commission. 
   This outstanding jurist, who is renowned for his expertise in legal practice, has been a highly sought-after speaker throughout his career, and has frequently shared his experience and knowledge with the Criminal Law Institute for the Houston Bar Association and the San Antonio Bar Association. Furthermore, Judge Jefferson has spoken at conventions for the National Bar Association and the Family Law Institute. 
   Aside from the respect that he has earned as a skilled jurist and advocate, Judge Jefferson's leadership and sound judgment has merited tenures as chairman of the board of the Houston Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank and of the Texas Southern University Foundation. Moreover, he is a life member of the Houston Area Urban League and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
   He has received numerous awards and honors, among them the Anti-Defamation League National Torch of Liberty Award, the Forward Times Community Service Award, the League of United Latin American Citizens National Community Service Award, and the Community Service Award from La Raza. In addition, he was a Presidential Nominee to sit on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
   To honor Judge Jefferson on this occasion will be momentous for the City of Houston, for Texas Southern University, and for minorities worldwide who aspire to study and practice law. He is an inspiration for minority students to give them confidence in their potential to succeed. 
   I congratulate and thank the State of Texas for its contribution to the overall accrual of the resources that were required for the endowment. 
   The establishment of a Trial Advocacy program at the Thurgood Marshall School of Law will be both an actual and a symbolic landmark. 
   It was not in the Sixties, but only a few years ago, that I joined the students, legislators, and community leaders at Prairie View A&M University on the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to fight for fair and unobstructed voting rights for those students. It was the skilled advocacy of the Lawyer's Committee that produced a statement by the Secretary of State in favor of the students. 
   Furthermore, the well-settled jurisprudence of case law such as Symm v. United States and United States v. Texas, which made important pronouncements as to the adequacy of students' residency/domicile status to determine eligibility to vote, were the product of skilled trial advocacy. 
   Without the work of the skilled advocates who argued those cases, we would have an even longer journey to equality of the right to vote in this nation. 
   Judge Jefferson was also a good friend and advisor to Barbara Jordan. They were strong friends together, because they believed in the empowerment of all. They fought side by side for equality and civil rights. When Barbara Jordan sought to expand the Voter Rights Act of 1965 to Texas in 1968, Judge Jefferson was right by her side. 
   My mentor, Barbara Jordan, was surrounded by the best and brightest, and Judge Jefferson was no exception. 
   Therefore, the endowment that will be established in the name of the Honorable Andrew L. Jefferson, Jr. will provide a legacy and will produce legal scholars who will contribute to the achievement of equality in the United States of America. 
   I congratulate the Thurgood Marshall School of Law at Texas Southern University and I thank Judge Jefferson for his service. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE OF TIMOTHY JOHN RUSSERT, JR. -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman, and to the New Yorkers and Washingtonians that had the privilege of having Tim Russert as their native son and someone who moved to their particular area, and to the State of Ohio where he was educated. 
   Let me thank the author of this legislation, the Congressman from New York (Mr. Higgins), the full committee Chair and ranking member. 
   This is a special tribute that is necessary for this body because we are nothing without words. And Tim Russert was the architect of words that gave politicians a basis of explaining how democracy works. That's what Meet the Press and Sunday morning was all about for many, many Americans. 
   So I rise to pay tribute to Tim Russert for his life and what he gave to the process of government, and to thank him as well as I watched over the weekend in the times that I was able to see the tributes toward him that he also gave a sense of importance of family, and how he emphasized his wife and his son and of course his family and ``Big Russ.'' 
   And isn't it interesting that he lost his life on the weekend of Father's Day? But it allows so many to emphasize that he was more than just the moderator, the host of Meet the Press; he was an American who loved this country and loved his flag, but he was also someone who loved his family and showed America that even in all of his energy and all of his business he could stop and smell the roses and appreciate the wonderment of his family. 
   And so I join my colleagues in tribute to him today on the floor of the House and ask, as we celebrate his life, that we will be reminded of the preciousness of democracy and all that we have in benefits to be able to stand on this floor and to espouse our words and to talk about what democracy and freedom is all about. Tim Russert captured it in his love for this process, and his giving to America the ability to understand it in layman's terms. 
   I offer my deepest sympathy to the Russert family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES AND SYMPATHY TO THE PEOPLE OF SICHUAN PROVINCE, CHINA -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1195, expressing condolences and sympathy to the people of the People's Republic of China for the grave loss of life and vast destruction caused by the massive earthquake centered in Sichuan Province. I would like to thank my colleague Representative DAVID WU of Oregon for introducing this important legislation that reaffirms the humanitarian commitment of the United States to the people of the People's Republic of China who have become victims of a catastrophic earthquake. Let me also thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Chairman Berman, for his leadership in bringing this resolution to the floor today. 
   As my colleagues are aware, the province of Sichuan, in southwest China, was struck by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake on May 12th. Centered in Wenchuan County, the earthquake brought a plethora of devastating aftershocks, casualties, and tragedy. It is reported that the death toll has approached 40,000, and a further 250,000 people have been injured. With tens of thousands of people still missing, it is likely that these figures will only rise. Furthermore, the earthquake has left an estimated 4.8 million people homeless making this one of the most devastating earthquakes in China since the 1976 Tangshan earthquake. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INVEST IN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Houston, the distinguished chairman. And I am delighted to be here with the distinguished congressman from New York (Mr. Hall). 
   I really appreciated listening to the diversity of the debate on energy, from the far northern parts of New York to the gulf States of Texas and, I might add, Louisiana because we have a number of Louisiana residents, of course, now making their home in Texas, and many of them happen to have worked in the energy industry, of course, and came to Houston because of the difficulty and the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina and then ultimately Hurricane Rita. 
   We know, interestingly enough, Mr. Hall, and I am sort of sidestepping here for a moment, that a number of rigs in the gulf suffered the consequences of Hurricane Katrina. And I think we should go on record to note, because I happen to believe in a diverse energy policy, that I am going to say all of them, and I have not heard a counter to this, managed to withstand Hurricane Katrina without an oil leak. And I only say that to say that those of us in the gulf have experienced off of our shores, and again we speak specifically to offshore work off of the gulf, environmentally safe drilling. And I say that because as we listen to those of us who come from different parts of the country, I think we can get an energy policy that fits us all. 
   I have listened to your discussion. I don't think that we necessarily need to intrude on the Outer Continental Shelf. Off the East Coast there is opposition. Maybe in time. I know there is opposition off the coast of Florida. There is opposition off the coast of California. I heard you talk about hydropower that works or would work very well. I guess I'm reminded of Niagara Falls. I got a chance to see that to see the power of water and energy that could be utilized and as well the energy that maybe I'm more familiar with.     
   That is why I think the thoughtful legislation of my good friend from Texas, the Invest in Energy Independence Act, H.R. 6067, which I am going to encourage all of my colleagues to join, and let me tell you why, Mr. Lampson. I think you really hit the nail on the head. I think we did this together when I was on the Science Committee and you were on the Science Committee when we tried to advocate for NASA. We tried to sell it not so much as it's a program to send people into space, but how it helps our daily lives. 
   Many people don't know what the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is all about. What is that foreign entity, SPR? Is it some kind of unfortunate disease? But it is an existing entity that sits amongst us. Really, I don't think this administration has taken advantage of it because I don't think it would offend our environmentalists, our colleagues from California, our colleagues from Arizona, our colleagues from New York, because it is existing petroleum. 
   Of course, our Speaker has been more eloquent or most eloquent about releasing the resources from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help us, and that is barrels of oil that are sitting there in case of danger, in case of terrorist acts, in case of an attack against the United States, we would have it. 
   But what Mr. Lampson has determined is that this is filled up with light and medium crude, and our refineries, I think some 36 of our refineries out of 74, deal with heavy crude. And so part of your bill suggests that we put heavy crude in. 
   Let me tell you why this is important. That is really the bottom line of why our immediate problems of dealing  with gasoline prices. It's all about supply and demand, it's all about refineries being old and antiquated and can't get their product out. That is one of the pieces of it. I don't want to suggest that I don't believe in conservation or diversity, because I'm going to get to that point. But having been an oil and gas lawyer for a period of time, I realize that we have got to look through a broad lens. And part of the problem is the opposition that we have given to building refineries. 
   But it's not only the problem of the United States Congress. Frankly, Mr. Lampson, it is the problem of tunnel vision energy industry that gives the industry a bad name, the oil and gas industry, that really has not sat down with this Congress or opened up options. Whenever we talk about the price per barrel of oil or talk about high gasoline prices, our good friends in the energy industry, particularly oil and gas, do tunnel vision. They say, I've got mine; you get yours. I've got my high profits, I've got my shareholders happy with me, and I am not going to look at any idea. 
   I think the Energy Independence Act causes them to look at other ideas but also may draw them out because I don't know how long Americans are going to continue to accept these accelerating prices. I saw a scenario on CNN that really said that we might be paying $8 or $9 or $10. 
   This, I hope, is a legislative initiative that really calls our energy barons to sit down and say, Let me listen to Mr. Hall from New York about hydro. Maybe my company is named energy for the very fact that it should be diverse. That the energy industry should be investing in hydro. You are giving the opportunity through utilizing the $574 million or $584 million that is now in the Department of Energy's account. I don't know how many people know we have got $584 million sitting around and moms and pops who are trying to go back and forth to schools or trying to get to work or trying to get on vacation for the free days that they can, drive to grandma's house, because that's about all the vacation people will be getting this summer, probably, are sitting around in an account. 
   And so this bill, I believe, is important because it throws the onus back on thinking people about how we can be creative in energy. What it does, of course, is ARPA, which deals with R&D, but Texas is the near capital of wind energy. We don't even get touted for that. No one celebrates the fact that we have got wind energy. I sat down with an energy company, a wind energy company, and let me not speak too quickly, but I was saying how can I get in the middle of this. It was fascinating that these guys are building windmills and creating energy right in the United States, in Texas. We don't know that. Oil and gas State. 
   Solar energy. What kind of jobs can be created by solar. First of all, you can get everybody to get a panel in their house. That is putting people to work. I mean the solar panels. Get your roof redone and that is putting people to work. Weatherization for my seniors. If we can ever get people to understand the importance of weatherizing houses, older houses, East Coast houses. My daughter worked in Albany so, my friend, it can get pretty cold in the upper parts of New York. Weatherization of your oldest stock of houses because it's a State that was one of the 13 colonies. It has older products. So the weatherization part of it is so important. 
   And then, of course, working with hydrokinetic and marine, you add that $30 million. But what I think this should do most of all, Congressmen, is wake up this industry. If I might, let me cite some numbers here so that I can speak to what we are afraid to speak to, and I just think we have to get to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. As I indicated on the floor, I am an oil and gas lawyer and obviously have a broadened perspective. But I would like to just say that I hope that even as you are presenting your presentation, that you heard what I said, which is I think that the energy leaders of the respective multinational companies that are in the United States need to sit down  with all of us and refine an energy policy. 
   I will just limit my remarks, since I was on the floor, and just say that my support of the Outer Continental Shelf is in this way: Limited to the areas that the constituencies have been used to it, have seen it work environmentally, and that would be, in my perspective, and I have done work on that and legislation on that, the Gulf of Texas and Louisiana. 
   I think if you have a model and show how it works, you may be able to bring your other colleagues on. Because I want you to note, and I think you would note, that the opposition to the Outer Continental Shelf is bipartisan on the coast, bipartisan a lot on the coast of California, both Democrats and Republican opposition; in Florida it is Democrats and Republicans; and I assume up the coast of New York. 
   So I think maybe we can be used as a model. Those of us from Texas, and you are not, you are from way up Midwest, but from those of us from Texas and Louisiana, we have seen it. The point I made is even after Hurricane Katrina, we saw the survival of an environmentally safe water system where those rigs did not fall because we have understood the construction and we also understand the environment. 
   I would yield back, but I just wanted to say I think we have to educate, and I am ready to show how it works 
   in the Gulf. And that is where I limit my support of the Outer Continental Shelf, where it has been done, where it can be proven it can be done right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERNATIONAL FOOD CRISIS AND HAITI -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. It is a special privilege to be on the floor tonight with a very distinguished Member of Congress and my coleader and cosponsor of this Special Order tonight, Congresswoman Yvette Clarke. 
   Might I note the special presence, if you will, of a number of Members from the Congress who have already spoken and pay tribute to their presence here, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Congressman Al Green, Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky, for their passion and commitment and take note and pay special tribute to our speaker tonight, who rounds out the circle. And we appreciate her for her attentiveness to this very important discussion and debate. And, likewise, let me add an appreciation for the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, the officers and members, who have seen fit to be the conscience of this Congress.     
   We have been particularly blessed by Congresswoman Clarke's presence because I think she represents really a particularly unique congressional district. It has a history of Shirley Chisolm, and of course her predecessor, Mr. Owens. But as the district has grown, I guess because of the initial history of Congresswoman Chisolm from the Caribbean. As the district has grown, it really exemplifies the tentacles of America. It is really, I guess, the cornerstone of what North and South America are about in the Caribbean because your district has this array of constituencies who represent South and Central America, the Caribbean, and other parts. It shows this unique place called America because when I say America, I am talking about South America, Central America, the Caribbean, this whole part of the world. For that reason, your insight is crucial. 
   We have seen the neglect of the Caribbean over the last 8 years, frankly. And I don't think there would be any debate on that question. I do know that there are concerned persons in the administration. But, Congresswoman Clarke, I have sat in meetings at the White House, I have sat in meetings, frankly, with representatives or Assistant Secretary of the State Department that sit in hearings and, frankly, you had to argue with them about the circumstances. 
   I guess one comes to mind, and I am going to focus on this food crisis, but I think I relayed to you one meeting in the White House that really required members of our caucus, the Congressional Black Caucus, frankly, that song, I shall not be moved. It required persons not to be moved until we had an opportunity to speak to the President of the United States. Of course, that was the time of crisis in the removal of then-President Aristide. Of course, President Preval worked with him as a prime minister. Then we had an Assistant Secretary for Western Affairs who was in fact, how shall I call it, an outright argument about the rightness of what we were doing for Haiti. 
   Frankly, I think as Americans representing such a diverse Nation, we should have a better attitude about allies, and Haiti is an ally. As you know your history, Haitians fought alongside of us. It is the oldest Democratic Nation in the Caribbean. Its independence was quick, was immediate almost, because of their great and wonderful founder, revolutionary that, of course, we saw many of his pictures, Toussaint Louverture, that we saw many of his pictures in Haiti. 
   So I say all this to say why do we come to this? Why are we at this point? Why do we need to be on the floor of the House? Although these are not exactly pictures taken recently in Haiti, the children symbolize what we left in Haiti, because we had an urgent mission. We had to meet with President Preval. Certainly the rural areas were there, but because it was an urgent mission, we had to focus our trip on that. 
   I can imagine when the President told us that 40 percent of the people in Haiti are eating one meal, and the word people, that means children, and everyone knows the results that occur when children go hungry. They are stunted in growth. They are certainly victims of malnutrition. They are stunted mentally. Who can go to school on a hungry stomach? One of the reasons we had the breakfast program and the lunch program here in the United States of America is the fact that we have studies that show the distinction between children who eat, nourished, and how they learn, versus a hungry child. See a quiet child, inattentive in a classroom, you can go to the source most likely. Can you imagine a country of children who are hungry? 
   Of course, these faces, for all we know, represent children in Haiti, of which on this particular trip we were not able to see who may be huddled in the various mountains and hills looking for food. And so if I might just share with you that right now we know that there are 850 million people who are chronically or acutely malnourished. That includes the people of Haiti. Over 300 million of these individuals are children. 
   Malnutrition caused by chronic hunger leads to the death of an estimated 5,600,000 children under 5 years old. According to UNICEF, an estimated 146 million children, roughly one in four children under 5 years old are underweight. According to a study conducted by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, 45 percent of children who died after contracting measles were malnourished, as were 60 percent of children who died after contracting severe diarrhea. An estimate 168 million children under age 5 in developing countries face potential growth retardation, also known as stunting, as a result of chronic hunger and malnutrition. Approximately 42 percent of children under 5 years old are stunted in the world's least developed countries. 
   So I lay the framework out for what we are facing in the country of Haiti and what President Preval has to deal with. You have a wonderful poster that indicates how high food is going. And so even now, where we used to be a high food donor country, but look what countries are having to pay for corn now, for soybeans, for wheat, and for rice. What a dilemma. And then, add insult to injure, if you would, as President Preval has indicated, infrastructure is needed and work is needed. 
   All of us were moved by the mother who stood up, and didn't look 48 years old, and according to your numbers, she has only 8 more years to live. She had 10 children. In cultures like that, they are very dependent on families. Children then go out to work and give back to families, and parents, because they age quickly, I guess, can retire back or can sit back with the hope of their children supporting them. What did she say? She managed to send her children to school, and the two that are now out and ready, no work. No work. 
   The food fight, the food riot, as the President indicated, or as we saw in  the news, was really because people had no money and no work to buy food. And so people were rioting because of that. President Preval wants us to help. What is this administration doing? Not releasing money the way it should; fighting against TPS, which really makes a difference. Temporary protective status allows people to stay and work, Haitians who have suffered this unequal wet foot-dry foot scenario between our friends from Cuba, and they are our friends. It wasn't a law that they wrote. But it was written, and I must say this, all of our Cuban representatives that are here in the United States Congress have supported equalizing the Haitian disparity issue. We just can't get it passed; which is to say I have an immigration bill that would create parity. If you were Haiti, because of the political crisis, you get your foot on our soil, you too can say. 
   But putting that aside, we don't have that. But TPS, the President begged us, President Preval. That would help the food crisis. Why? Because it would allow people who are here, sending back remittances, what, a fourth of their economy, to at least be able to send back to momma, grandma, somebody, so they can eke out a survival. 
   So to the Congresswoman, so he asked us for infrastructure, clean-running water that helps you be able to at least cook decent food, creation of jobs, and if you were to put money in for infrastructure, people could work. Even though these prices are outrageous, they could at least minimally begin to bring food in. 
   One of our colleagues said something that we heard, and that was the dumbing down of the rice industry, or dumbing down the traditional foods. President Preval said he would like to get Haitians back to traditional food, not because he wants to keep them from buying from us but because what we did is when rice was cheap, we dumbed them down from raising rice, meaning, Oh, I don't have to worry about raising rice. Let me raise something else. I don't know what the decision was because I am going to get what he called ``Miami rice.'' Look what happened. They stopped growing. I assume Miami rice has gotten way, way, way expensive. They are not growing the traditional foods. And look where we are. 
   So, Congresswoman, I want to thank you for raising or giving us the opportunity. I am delighted to be your coleader and cosponsor because out of these discussions I hope it comes the finger on the phone, the finger on the e-mail, Haitians around the country pressing their phone buttons and calling Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to join us in our fight for the TPS. 
   We know a number of our colleagues have been working on this issue, from Congressman Hastings, myself, you, Congressman Kendrick Meek from Florida, Congresswoman Corrine Brown. I may have left off someone. There's a number of people that understand the realities of that. So press your button wherever you are, get your e-mail out. We have to get relief with a temporary reprieve on TPS. 
   The second thing is that the administration needs to make an immediate commitment for food relief and the releasing of dollars for Haiti, a country whose singular--who could have only one reason for us helping them is the blood they shed from our Freedom Fight, for our Revolution, the blood they shed when they stood alongside of us in the Revolutionary War. No one can take that away from them in terms of relationship with the United States. 
   So I want to join you, and as I close yield to the gentlelady, just engage her in a question, because I would like to ask a question. I would commit our colleagues as well to H. Con. Res. 344. You are an original cosponsor. It is to say in any food aid, we need to prioritize children. Certainly I believe we can add pregnant women and mothers, nursing mothers, a vulnerable population. I think that would be an excellent addition. But I do think what happens to our children dictates what happens to the future of the country because if you have stunted children with inability to learn, what do you have in the future. 
   I would ask the gentlelady, and so I hope people will come on the bill H. Con. Res. 344. I hope we can mark it up soon, get it to the floor of the House, and maybe expand on some aspects of it.  
   I rise tonight, together with my colleagues Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, as well as the House Hunger Caucus, to address a grave and growing humanitarian crisis. With rising food prices threatening the health of millions of people throughout the world, it is vital that we look for both short-term responses to the crisis and long-term solutions to ongoing food instability. 
   As my colleagues are aware, according to the United Nations, over 850,000,000 people in the world are chronically or acutely malnourished, and over 300,000,000 of these are children. The statistics are both shocking and tragic: Malnutrition caused by chronic hunger leads to the death of an estimated 5,600,000 children under 5 years old; according to UNICEF, an estimated 146,000,000 children, or roughly one in every four children under 5 years old, are underweight; according to a study conducted by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, 45 percent of children who died after contracting measles were malnourished, as were 60 percent of children who died after contracting severe diarrhea; an estimated 168,000,000 children under age five in developing countries face potential growth retardation, also known as stunting, as a result of chronic hunger and undernutrition; approximately 42 percent of children under 5 years old are stunted in the world's least developed countries. 
   Rising food prices have precipitated a crisis situation. On March 20th of this year, the U.N. World Food Program made an urgent appeal to the United States and other food aid donors for an additional $500 million to fill a funding gap caused by rising food and fuel prices. Since then, this gap has expanded, and is now an estimated $755 million. As food prices rise, children are the first to suffer. 
   Earlier this month, with the support of 46 of my colleagues, I introduced H. Con. Res. 344. This resolution recognizes that we face a global food crisis, and that children will be disproportionately affected by rising food prices. The bill states that:   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERNATIONAL FOOD CRISIS AND HAITI -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If the gentlewoman would yield for just a moment, on that very note, this is the People's House, and what I would like to encourage right now on the floor of the House is let us call for Haitian-Americans who are here in the United States to come to Washington. Some are as close as your congressional district. 
   Let us collectively merge our bills, or maybe reintroduce all of our bills or portions of our bills that we have and make that push, I would never use the term ultimatum, but make the urgent push that we need to move forward on hearings dealing with TPS. 
   That is the first step of moving toward a markup of some component thereof of a TPS. Temporary. It could be a TPS for a year. That is what we did with El Salvador, and then it was renewed. We did it with Liberia, that was deferred, DED, I believe. So we have had these moments when there is a crisis. There is clearly a crisis in Haiti. And I would like to join with the gentlewoman to organize that and call that session in and make the point that we need to move on that issue as quickly as possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE WOMEN IN THE U.S. MILITARY AND EXPRESSING OUR SYMPATHY TO THE PEOPLE OF CHINA -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be able to rise today to celebrate two important statements that were made on the floor of the House today. I might alter that and say ``celebrate'' but also to acknowledge and commemorate. 
   I do want to associate myself with the legislation of Congresswoman SUSAN DAVIS of California in acknowledging the women in the United States military. Women have shown themselves in Iraq and Afghanistan and all around the world to be true leaders. Many have been injured, many of them have seen serious injuries. They have been mothers, they have been sisters and daughters. They have led their families, but yet they have been warriors and battlers for the freedom of America. I salute them and celebrate them as we commemorate Memorial Day. 
   Let me also join Mr. Wu in offering my deepest sympathy to the people of China for this tragic earthquake and the loss of now some thousands upon thousands of individuals. We extend our hand not only of friendship but of support and charity, and I look forward to working with the Counsulate General in Houston to be able to provide support for those families here in the United States as well as those who are suffering in China. 
   Our deepest prayers and deepest sympathy for those who mourn the loss of their loved ones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 -- (House of Representatives - September 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1420, a resolution recognizing September 11 as a day of remembrance, extending sympathies to those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and their families, honoring the heroic actions of our Nation's first responders and armed forces, and reaffirming the commitment to the defense of the people of the United States against any and all future challenges. 
   I support this resolution because although seven years have passed since that fateful day, the pain, agony, and sense of loss still endures in the hearts and minds of the American people. As we reflect on the tragic events of 9/11, we can never forget the courage and heroism of the men and women who selflessly reacted to help those that were incapacitated and remember the nearly 3,000 innocent lives that were sacrificed without warning. 
   This tragedy has left an indelible scar on the Nation's history and has awakened a newfound sense of patriotism and nationalism. This day of remembrance is important and necessary because it reminds us that we must continue to support those that fight abroad to keep our homeland safe. 
   America must now look forward and do all that it can to ensure the integrity of freedom upon which this country has been founded. We must learn from the aftermath of this catastrophe to respond and react to such disastrous events without inhibiting the civil liberties and freedom of the very people we serve. 
   Madam Speaker, on September 11, 2001, the Nation watched in horror as the unthinkable occurred. On that faithful day, a ruthless attack had been orchestrated, transforming the WorId Trade Center Towers and the Pentagon into human infernos that claimed thousands of innocent lives. The tragic events of 9/11 were examples of despicable acts of faceless cowards who have no regard for human life. 
   Across the United States and around the world, people of all ages and walks of life collectively united during a time of tremendous sorrow and despair. It was an unforgettable day that transformed the lives of many and united Americans in a way this Nation had not seen since WorId War II. 
   As I stand here today, my heart remains torn from the gruesome events of that day as I can only imagine what the passengers on flights United Airlines 93, American Airlines 77, American Airlines 11, and United Airlines 175 were thinking of when they found out that they had only moments to live. I must commend the brave souls that did everything to help prevent more lives from being lost. The actions taken by the passengers of flight 93, firefighters, policemen, and first responders can never be forgotten and their service is worthy of great recognition. 
   I stand here today simply to offer my deepest condolences to the families of the fallen victims and the servicemen and women who sacrificed their own lives to save others. On behalf the 18th Congressional District of Texas, I express my sorrow for the tragic losses in New York, Washington, DC, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. However, we must also not forget the good that has come about in the midst of a country that harbored many differences. 
   After the tragic events of 9/11, there was a realization that in those moments of humanity, Americans were able to unite and share the same sense of sorrow and empathy. The people of the United States came together and strengthened its resolve to defend and protect the basic fundamentals of the country. This is what makes our country so great. As the late Dr. Martin Luther King has said, ``Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.'' I must also bring to light the overwhelming support of our global community in this time of tragedy. 
   As we reflect back upon this unfortunate event, we need to also consider the measures we have taken to make America safer. As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is my duty to bring to the attention of the American people many homeland security initiatives that we have undertaken that have not been successful. 
   Osama bin Laden has eluded our forces for nearly eight years and the nation's infrastructures and borders are still vulnerable to attacks. Immigration has been an important concern that has resulted from these attacks and the terrorist watch list that the Transportation Security Administration has implemented is apparently inefficient. 
   Madam Speaker, there are many issues that still need to be addressed in order to secure our nation. It is my sincere hope that we as Democrats, Republicans, and Independents alike will come together to expeditiously resolve these issues and help place the path of this great nation onto a noble path. I have great faith and confidence that we will be able to achieve this soon one day and our differences will be accommodated. 
   As we move forward, 9/11 is a day that will remain in remembrance. We have understood the meaning of sacrifice through the country's history of rebuilding and positive reform. The United States is the forefront of innovation and has the ability to reflect and learn from past mistakes. I pray for the lives lost on 9/11 and also for the protection of innocent lives from senseless conflicts and war. 
   I urge all members to join me in supporting H. Res. 1420. This tragic moment can never be forgotten and we need to do all we can in our power to prevent such a travesty from occurring again. We must remember September 11, 2001 to propel this nation and its policies to prevent and prepare itself from future disasters.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING FATHER'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to be able to congratulate and to wish a happy Father's Day to all of the fathers across America. In particular, I wish a very special and very respectful Father's Day to all of those serving on the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan, all of our veterans, all of them loved dearly for their service, and as well the service and love they give their families. 
   I want to pay special tribute to those fathers who are no longer with us, and might I mention Ezra C. Jackson, my father, my dad, who will always be someone in my heart as someone willing to stand by his children and be able to uplift his children. 
   Again this is a commemorative holiday where we simply say ``thank you.'' Fathers are the guiding force, fathers bring strength, both in religion, both in character, and in support of their families. We are a nation of families, moms and dads and grandmothers and grandfathers. And for all of those who have stood in as fathers, we wish you a very happy Father's Day as well. 
   This is a special day, and as I close, let me simply say, we have a weekend of Father's Day. And in Texas, we commemorate Juneteenth. It is a special weekend of celebrations, remembering the struggle of those who were not yet freed as slaves, and remembering the service and the love that our fathers give in America. 
   We are united as families, and fathers remain very dear in our hearts. Happy Father's Day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me offer my appreciation to the full Committee on Appropriations, both the chairman and ranking member, and to this subcommittee. I've seen enormous commitment to bipartisanship between Mr. Edwards and, of course, Mr. Wicker. But my good colleague and friend from Texas has outdone himself, and this particular veterans appropriation, the Military Construction Veterans Affairs appropriation, signifies nothing but joy for Americans and veterans all across this country. 
   Might I just cite the fact that this bill moves above the President's budget in medical services, making it $28.9 billion; moves above the President's request on homeless vets, $130 million; moves above the President's request on medical facilities, $4.1 billion; and moves above it on extended care facilities, $165 million. 
   Many of us have risen to the floor today to talk about post-traumatic stress. I just wanted to remind my colleagues of the kind of horror and nightmare that many of our soldiers and returning soldiers and veterans live with, suffering from PTSD. It is simply to acknowledge the fact that over and over again you relive the tragedy of the experience, whether it's small arms fire, whether it's IEDs, whether it's seeing your comrade fall in battle in front of you, whether it's seeing his body implode, you know that you're reliving it, and the number one basis of PTSD is military and combat exposure. 
   Just for the record, let me acknowledge that 94 percent of the soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small arms fire; 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured or killed. This is a major issue and it is a major part of the lives of our soldiers. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment simply was to do this: It was to provide more medical centers in places like rural areas or small cities to be able to be utilized for PTSD. I know Chairman Edwards knows this issue because it was his leadership that generated the change of the Waco veterans hospital into a mental health facility. I want that to continue to stand, and I want to thank him for the increased dollars he's put in for PTSD. 
   But, Mr. Chairman, I have a veterans advisory committee that's indicated that we need centers around the Nation, smaller centers maybe in small hospitals, that would respond to veterans and returning soldiers, maybe even to the extent of reimbursing them by being in those particular centers. 
   Let me close by simply saying that this bill is comprehensive. I look forward to working with the chairman on more permanent housing for the disabled, as we work toward more PTSD facilities, even though we have a great amount of resources here, more adjusted housing, if you will, for those who are coming back so they're not living alone. 
   I want to take special privilege to acknowledge the DeGeorge in my community for my homeless vets, a facility for homeless vets, DeGeorge at Union Station and U.S. Vets. All of them confront veterans and returning soldiers with PTSD. If we expand these facilities so that rural and small cities and even inner city areas, which is what my amendment is focused on, everybody would have the opportunity to be able to access help with PTSD. 
   I would ask my colleagues to consider as we move toward conference to be able to work on this issue in an expanded way.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak in strong support of the bill and in favor of my amendment. I also rise to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Edwards, the chairman of the Appropriations I subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and Military Construction, and the Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, Mr. Filner, for all they have done and continue to do to make real President Lincoln's admonition that ``we care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' 
   In particular, I wish to commend Chairman Edwards, for the leadership, commitment, and foresight he has demonstrated on the issue of PTSD and the overall mental health of our nation's veterans. On February 28, 2007, he announced that $3 million has been made available for the Waco VA PTSD program in 2006 which is now available so that researchers at Fort Hood, Texas A&M, Baylor, the Temple VA, and the Waco VA hospital work towards realizing their goal of making the Waco VA, in conjunction with Ft. Hood and the Temple VA, a world-class PTSD and mental health care research center. 
   Like Mr. Edwards and Mr. Filner, I am committed to improving the lives of thousands of veterans who have risked their lives for our nation, and I believe my amendment plays a crucial role in ensuring that veterans suffering from PTSD receive the medical treatment they desperately need. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to explain my amendment to H.R. 2642, the Veterans Affairs and Military Construction Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year of 2008. As a Member of Congress from Texas, a state which has sustained more casualties in the ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq than all but one other, I am pleased to offer this amendment. This amendment is intended to address the urgent need for more post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) treatment and counseling facilities servicing veterans living in some of the more distressed areas of our country. 
   Mr. Chairman, according to Webster's, dignity is ``the quality or condition of being esteemed, honored or worthy.'' We can never do enough to honor our wounded veterans. Studies have shown that 30 percent of troops deployed to Iraq suffer from depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, when wounded troops return home the treatment they receive is more befitting a second class citizen than a hero. This is a shame and a great stain on our nation. 
   How these problems could be overlooked or neglected by this Administration is unfathomable. The very leaders that these brave young men and women rely on let them down. The message that incidents like Walter Reed Medical Center sends to our troops is that we do not care enough. But that is not the message we wish to send. The Veterans Administration and Military Construction Appropriations Act of 2008, H.R. 2642, will go long away toward correcting this misapprehension. All members of the House are indebted to our colleague, Mr. Edwards of Texas, for his masterful leadership in shepherding this landmark legislation to the House floor. For the 25,380, 2,401 from Texas, brave men and women who have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, help is on the way. And the 3,519, 298 from Texas, heroes who have given the last full measure of devotion will always be in our hearts and prayers. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of medical facilities specializing in post-traumatic stress disorder located in underserved urban areas. Access to post-traumatic stress disorder treatment is especially important since veterans living in such areas are less likely to be diagnosed and treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. 
   Mr. Chairman, PTSD is one of the most prevalent and devastating psychological wounds suffered by the brave men and women fighting in far off lands to defend the values and freedom we hold dear. 
   For those of us whose daily existence is not lived in harm's way, it is difficult to imagine the horrific images that American servicemen and women deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other theaters of war see on a daily basis. In an instant a suicide bomber, an lED, or an insurgent can obliterate your best friend and right in front of your face. Yet, you are trained and expected to continue on with the mission, and you do, even though you may not even have reached your 20th birthday. 
   But there always comes a reckoning. And it usually comes after stress and trauma of battle is over and you are alone with your thoughts and memories. And the horror of those desperate and dangerous encounters with the enemy and your own mortality come flooding back. 
   PTSD was first brought to public attention in relation to war veterans, but it can result from a variety of traumatic incidents, such as mugging, rape, torture, being kidnapped or held captive, child abuse, car accidents, train wrecks, plane crashes, bombings, or natural disasters such as floods or earthquakes. 
   People with PTSD may startle easily, become emotionally numb, especially in relation to people with whom they used to be close, lose interest in things they used to enjoy, have trouble feeling affectionate, be irritable, become more aggressive, or even become violent. They avoid situations that remind them of the original incident, and anniversaries of the incident are often very difficult. PTSD symptoms seem to be worse if the event that triggered them was deliberately initiated by another person, as in a mugging or a kidnapping. Most people with PTSD repeatedly relive the trauma in their thoughts during the day and in nightmares when they sleep. These are called flashbacks. Flashbacks may consist of images, sounds, smells, or feelings, and are often triggered by ordinary occurrences, such as a door slamming or a car backfiring on the street. A person having q flashback may lose touch with reality and believe that the traumatic incident is happening all over again.  
   Mr. Chairman, the matter is that most veterans with PTSD also have other psychiatric disorders, which are a consequence of PTSD. These veterans have co-occurring disorders, which include depression, alcohol and/or drug abuse problems, panic, and/or other anxiety disorders. 
   The current conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq are the most continuous combat operations since Vietnam. Only one comprehensive study has examined the mental health impact of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and that was performed by Charles W. Hoge, MD. This study looked at the experience of soldiers in the war zone and symptoms of psychological distress. Soldiers in Iraq are at risk for being killed or wounded themselves, are likely to have witnessed the suffering of others, and may have participated in killing or wounding others as part of combat operations. All of these activities have a demonstrated association with the development of PTSD. Hoge's study indicated that 94 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small-arms fire. In addition, 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured or killed, 68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously injured Americans, and 51 percent reported handling or uncovering human remains. The majority, 77 percent, of soldiers deployed to Iraq reported shooting or directing fire at the enemy, 48 percent reported being responsible for the death of an enemy combatant, and 28 percent reported being responsible for the death of a noncombatant. 
   My amendment recognizes that these soldiers are first and foremost, human. They carry their experiences with them. Ask a Vietnam Veteran about the frequency of nightmares they experience, and one will realize that serving in the Armed Forces leaves a lasting impression, whether good or bad. My amendment ensures that no soldier is left behind. By directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of medical facilities specializing in PTSD that are located in underserved urban areas, and conducting a concurrent study on increasing access to PTSD treatment at these facilities those soldiers will never feel forgotten or taken for granted. These soldiers can be certain that Members of Congress will ensure that they receive the necessary treatment to guarantee that their adjustment back into society is a successful one. 
   As the war in Iraq continues to drag on, and with our country continuing to send military personnel to Afghanistan, the military has been overwhelmed with returning soldiers suffering from mental health problems. Earlier this month, Col. Elspeth Ritchie, psychiatry consultant to the Army surgeon general, stated ``as the war has gone on, PTSD and other psychological effects of war have increased. The number of mental health workers that was adequate for a peacetime military is not adequate for a nation that's been at war.'' 
   Mr. Chairman, according to surveys conducted of troops in Iraq, 15-20 percent of Army soldiers have demonstrated signs of post-traumatic stress. Symptoms of this serious disorder include nightmares, flashbacks, emotional detachment, dissociation, insomnia, loss of appetite, memory loss, clinical depression, and anxiety. One year after returning from combat, approximately 35 percent of soldiers are seeking some kind of mental health treatment. Among soldiers still stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan, many incidents of abuse, including killings and rapes by U.S. soldiers, have been attributed to ethics lapses caused by the strain of combat. 
   Mr. Chairman, last Thursday, the Department of Defense released a report that stated ``current efforts fall significantly short'' in providing help for troops. Further, this report found that the psychological health needs of America's military service members, their families and their survivors pose a daunting and growing challenge to the Department of Defense. 
   I urge adoption of my amendment. And I thank the Chairman for his fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, in order to work in this House, there are many good friends that we engage with, and I just listened to a good friend of mine on the other side of the aisle. But I think we are missing the straight and narrow road as our colleagues continue to be repetitive and a broken record. 
   Let me indicate that almost like the terminology ``border security'' and ``war against terror,'' there is no disagreement between the parties in terms of transparency, I would hope, in this new Congress. My good friends on the other side of the aisle know that the stumbles that they made in the last Congresses motivated the American public to change hands as it relates to the majority. It is certainly foolish for them to think that this majority would muddle it up by not furthering the challenges and the instructions given by the people, which was transparency. And I know that they know that no earmark will move to finality without the American public's having the opportunity to scrutinize and to assess those earmarks of each Member. Earmarks that must serve the American public not special interests. 
   But now we are in a state which calls to question the commitment of the minority to this whole issue of homeland security. I know that all of us can find a number of different ways to utilize these dollars. What we found from many Members on this side of the aisle is that we have attempted to plus-up, for example, the urban area grants, which help the high-tier, particularly sensitive, and troubled and terror-prone cities around America, that is, moving dollars to improve the security of vulnerable areas. 
   The simple reduction of funds does not speak to the singular question and the responsibility of the Homeland Security authorizing committee, which I have the honor of serving on as the subcommittee Chair with my chairman, the Honorable BENNIE THOMPSON.  
   We know every day, as the chairman of the subcommittee on Homeland Security for appropriations, David Price, does, and I know his ranking member, that every day questions of homeland security appear before the American public. I have a personal remembrance, Mr. Chairman, of singing on the steps of this body ``America the Beautiful'' on that forlorn day, a day that no American could ever have imagined in their life, those who were not of the World War II generation to have remembered Pearl Harbor, but no one could have fathomed the strike that came to us on September 11, 2001. It was then that we changed our complete mindset that we had no time, no leeway, no latitude, if you will, to play around the edges of homeland security. We are doing that and we have done that last night. We did that all into the wee hours, playing around homeland security. 
   And while we fiddle away the time, the first responder and port security grant program is languishing, dollars that are needed by those on the front lines. State grants regarding law enforcement, urban area grants that Houston, as one of the tier-one cities, certainly would be losing and many in the State of Texas. Albeit the incident at JFK is still being explored, even the thought that individuals would have the knowledge to explode a pipeline that would then literally obliterate an airport and the surrounding areas says that we are fiddling while Rome is burning. 
   And so I want to work with my colleagues. I know that the chairman of this subcommittee does. The chairman of our full Committee on Homeland Security, the authorizing committee, wants to as well. There are issues that we want to confront, and, certainly, I want the most secure airports one can  find, not only the area where the traveling public is but the area where employees are, the area where workers are, the back part of the airport. I want pipelines to be safe. 
   And as it relates to the issue dealing with preparedness, we were in a subcommittee hearing today where the question has come up whether the disabled are secure, whether the vulnerable communities are secure. 
   So, Mr. Chairman, let me simply say we are fiddling while Rome is burning. We need to move forward because the question will be for the American public when a tragedy happens, as I close, where were you and what did you do? They will just film what happened last night and what is happening today, and we will not be able to answer the question with dignity. 
   The leadership in this House believes in homeland security. We need to move this bill forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   I would like to enter into a colloquy with the distinguished chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security on the Appropriations Committee. 
   Mr. Chairman, we have learned from the recent devastation of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, as well as Tropical Storm Allison, which devastated my city of Houston in 2001, that severe consequences can result from not having the proper hurricane preparedness plans and outreach efforts in place prior to such a disaster. 
   In my own district in Houston, and in New Orleans, and in communities throughout America, we have personally seen firsthand that minorities, the elderly, the disabled and impoverished populations have not been adequately prepared for the upcoming hurricane seasons or, in fact, hurricane seasons in the past. 
   I am particularly dismayed that these vulnerable populations have not been targeted by outreach efforts communicating the need to prepare for a major hurricane or other natural disaster. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck some of America's most vulnerable and disadvantaged communities. Even rural communities have suffered from the lack of focus on emergency preparedness, communities which are just now beginning to find their feet again after these devastating storms. 
   National, State and local governments have not fulfilled their responsibility to ensure that they are not, once again, left to face nature's wrath alone. My colleague from Minnesota, Representative JIM RAMSTAD, has stated that the disaster in the gulf coast region exposed the enormous gaps in the emergency planning preparedness and management for people with disabilities. We desperately need to fill these gaps. 
   Mr. Chairman, I had intended to offer an amendment to H.R. 2638, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2008, that would have provided an additional $5 million to FEMA to support emergency preparedness outreach and program efforts for vulnerable communities, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, the elderly, and the economically disadvantaged. 
   However, money does not answer all questions, and I would be willing to forgo offering my amendment if the chairman would be willing to work with me to ensure that FEMA makes specific efforts to engage those most vulnerable members of our communities in programs that would involve the necessary preparedness, education, training and awareness that is necessary to prepare our communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank you. 
   I am aware of dedicated community activists that have stepped forward to fill the void left by Federal, State and local governments. Currently, FEMA's national preparedness director only has an acting deputy administrator rather than the permanent leadership this office requires. Further, this administrator testified before our Homeland Security Subcommittee that our national strategy for citizen preparedness must be rooted in strong local efforts to integrate citizens and communities, and requires locally or regionally developed plans to address each community's unique risk and capabilities. 
   He also testified to the need for utilizing volunteer services, since there are not enough emergency responders to take care of everyone in every location during the most critical time.  
   I understand the chairman believes there are funds available in the legislation for FEMA to reach out to these State and local activists and groups to provide them with the resources that they need to continue their vitally important work, and to work to ensure that the absolute debacle that we saw 2 years ago before, during, and after Hurricane Katrina is never allowed to happen again. One such activist is Mr. Charles X. White, who has worked tirelessly to provide much-needed resources for Houston's vulnerable communities. 
   In light of predictions of a devastating hurricane season this year, we must take action to ensure that those who are reaching neglected segments of our American population are adequately funded, including these vulnerable populations, racial, ethnic, disabled, elderly and others. 
   I look forward to working with you, Mr. Chairman, on report language as this bill goes forward, to ensure that hurricane preparedness outreach to vulnerable communities is a priority for FEMA. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentlewoman has expired. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman for his work on this legislation, this appropriations bill. And I thank you on behalf of the vulnerable communities across America who may be facing a tough hurricane or man-made disaster season. 
   We need FEMA to focus their attention. I thank the gentleman for his work and his support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I just want to say the gentleman is absolutely right. We have to separate what ICE does from local law enforcement. This is trying to backdoor immigration reform. We really need, not piecemeal immigration reform, if we are going to do it. 
   ICE, in relation with the jails, that works. Make sure the incarcerated criminals are tracked in the right direction. But to go into neighborhoods using local law enforcement that is now using ICE money to train them really, I think, undermines the law enforcement system in that community, and law-abiding citizens who would be willing to help solve a crime are now being victimized. 
   If we are going to do immigration reform, let's do it. Let's do it in the right way. But let's not manipulate local law enforcement, who in fact have made official statements on the record that they would prefer not to be engaged in Federal immigration work. 
   So I thank the gentleman for the point that he has made, and I hope that this body will get down at some point to a reasonable and rational response to the problems of the immigration system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the Chair for this opportunity to explain my amendment to H.R. 2638, the ``Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year of 2008.'' My amendment would provide an additional $5 million to FEMA, to support emergency preparedness efforts for vulnerable communities, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, the elderly, and the economically disadvantaged. 
   My amendment is very simple, but it is extremely necessary. In my own district in Houston, and in communities throughout America, minority, elderly, disabled, and improverished populations have not been adequately prepared for the upcoming hurricane season. Special efforts must be made to engage these most vulnerable members of our communities in vitally necessary emergency preparedness education, training, and awareness. 
   I am particularly dismayed that these vulnerable populations have not been targeted by outreach efforts communicating the need to prepare for a major hurricane. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck some of America's most vulnerable and disadvantaged communities, communities which are just now beginning to find their feet again after these devastating storms. National, state, and local governments have not fulfilled their responsibility to ensure that they are not, once again, left to face nature's wrath alone. 
   We saw the utter failure of government response 2 years ago, when Hurricane Katrina struck our shores. One Katrina survivor, a resident of New Orleans named Charmaine Neville, told her story in an interview following Hurricane Katrina. Ms. Neville described having no way to evacuate the city before the storm hit, and her feelings of abandonment by the authorities. She discussed her personal efforts, and those of other volunteers, to rescue stranded and vulnerable individuals ``from the hospices, from the hospitals and from the old-folks homes.'' 
   Ms. Neville's testimony is shocking, even 2 years later. She states, ``I tried to get the police to help us, but I realized they were in the same straits we were,'' and tells the story of her personal rescue of 2 elderly women in wheelchairs. Ms. Neville recalls, ``When we finally did get into the 9th ward, and not just in my neighborhood, but in other neighborhoods in the 9th ward, there were a lot of people still trapped down there ..... old people, young people, babies, pregnant women.'' She told the interviewer, ``What I want people to understand is that, if we hadn't been left down there like the animals that they were treating us like, all of those things wouldn't have happened. When they gave the evacuation order, if we could've left, we would have left.'' 
   Another Hurricane Katrina survivor described the situation at a local hospital, where his wife was employed as a nurse, in the 
   days following the storm. ``You can imagine a hospital with 2,000 people and no electricity, water, food, or flushing toilets. Breathing machines did not work. Cell phones did not work. Because the computers stopped working, medicines were unavailable. Elevators in the 8 floor building did not work. We quickly ran out of food because the cafeteria and food were also in the flooded basement. The gains of 21st century medicine disappeared. Over 40 people died in the hospital over the next few days as we waited for help.'' 
   He went on to talk about the evacuation, stating, ``The Katrina evacuation was totally self-help. If you had the resources, a car, money and a place to go, you left. The poor, especially those without cars, were left behind. The sick were left behind. The elderly were left behind. Untold numbers of other disabled people and their caretakers were also left behind. Children were left behind. Prisoners were left behind.'' 
   I believe in an America in which no one is left behind. I believe in an America where these vulnerable sectors of the population are targeted by education, training, and awareness programs; an America in which they receive the tools and resources that they need to survive the next disaster. And I believe that, thus far, federal, state, and local governments have failed to provide this. 
   In light of this lack of adequate response, dedicated community activists, like Mr. Charles X. White of Houston, have stepped forward to fill this void. Mr. White and his organization, Charity Productions, are working tirelessly to provide much-needed resources for the elderly, disabled, impoverished, and minority communities of Houston. Community projects, like Mr. White's, that reach vulnerable members of our population are particularly crucial in light of predictions of a devastating hurricane season this year. 
   I saw firsthand the plight of vulnerable populations after Hurricane Rita. During the hurricane, I fielded calls at Houston's Emergency Operations Center in order to facilitate obtaining assistance for elderly and disabled residents. I believe it is unconscionable to, despite the knowledge and experience we have gained in the past 2 years, allow this to happen again. 
   A major component of hurricane preparedness must be an evacuation plan. In New Orleans, residents were divided between those who had cars and could easily escape, and those who did not. Nationally, African Americans and Latinos comprise about 54 percent of those reliant of public transportation. Blacks are 6 times more likely than whites to travel via public transit. 
   Since Katrina, cities like New Orleans have made some attempt to address evacuation deficiencies. According to reports, New Orleans has developed a system of bus evacuation; however, managers of the program have released few details about accommodations for those individuals with limited mobility. Matthew Kallmyer, New Orleans' deputy emergency preparedness director, has been quoted as saying, ``Those people need to go ahead and try to make their own plan, of course. At the end of the day, you know you are someone who has a disability. Try to go ahead and find the means to get yourself out or get yourself to one of the evacuation points.''  
   We have an obligation to provide the American people with a disaster response system that works. We must not allow the lessons of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita to fall on deaf ears. My amendment seeks to fund the groups and programs that target vulnerable communities, to ensure that, when the next hurricane hits, these groups may be adequately prepared. 
   I look forward to working with the Appropriations Committee, and Chairman Obey and Chairman Price, to ensure language in the Conference Report for H.R. 2638, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2008, which provides funds to FEMA for hurricane preparedness outreach to vulnerable communities.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NICS IMPROVEMENT AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important as we come to the floor this morning to remind our colleagues of the horrible death that this legislation has had over the last two Congresses. Just think how many lives could have been saved had the wisdom of Congresswoman McCarthy and certainly her cosponsor Congressman Dingell and this body prevailed. Maybe the tragedy of Virginia Tech, Seung-Hui Cho, who was already judged someone who was troubled, could have saved the lives of 32 who died and 26 who were wounded. 
   This bill died Congress after Congress. I rise today to support this legislation because it is an answer partly to the crisis of the massive numbers of murders and death by guns in this country. 
   I am reminded of the phrase of those who want to see no regulation, and that is that ``people kill, guns don't.'' But it is interesting that they use guns to kill, just like the individual who recently walked into his pregnant wife's office and shot her dead, a pregnant woman. 
   So I support this legislation for making it easier to secure the instant background checks to get rid of the backlogs and to be able to stand in the way of a Seung-Hui Cho. 
   Let me thank Congressman Conyers for his continuing advocacy and the great work of Congresswoman McCarthy over the years of expressing her advocacy based upon her experience, and it has been a tribute to her service in America. Let me thank Mr. Dingell and the ranking member, Mr. Smith, for their collaboration on moving this legislation forward. 
   Might I, however, note that I am concerned that there is an allowance for those who have been denied earlier to be able to purchase a gun later in life. I raise a concern about that, whether that person is fully healed and ready to own a gun. And then it also indicates that it automatically restores the gun rights of a military American who may have been diagnosed with military illness, suggesting that he or she may no longer be under a monitoring system or no longer needs care. I raise these loopholes because those are the kinds of cases that will pop up on the Nation's headlines. Why did it happen? Because we had a loophole. 
   So we have taken some steps, but, frankly, as I look at the numbers of dead in Chicago, young people who have died, now some 31, 32, at the hands of guns, yes, gun violence and gangs, but it still is speaking to the proliferation of guns in America. 
   I don't have any problem with the second amendment. You can carry a legal gun for legal purposes all you want. Go through the hoops and go through the circles so that we can protect America against the illegal selling of guns that results in 32 dead teenagers as young as 14 years old in Chicago, Illinois. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation. It is a good step forward. And I thank the leaders for this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRADE AND GLOBALIZATION ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3920, The Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Chairman Rangel. This important legislation updates and overhauls the antiquated Trade Assistance Act for workers program of 1962. 
   In today's globalized economy, no worker is untouched by the phenomenon of the global trade market. In 1962, when the Trade Assistance Act was conceived and implemented, the status of American workers was much different than it is today. The existing and outdated legislation is marred with arbitrary eligibility criteria and inconsistencies as well as a lack of coverage for workers in industries that were not yet prominent. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007, integrates all workers whose efforts in building our global economy make our economy flourish within the international system. Coverage will now be granted to workers in the service industry, which had yet to significantly develop in the 1960's, as well as secondary and offshore workers. The bill eliminates restrictions, ensuring that all workers impacted by trade are covered, regardless of where the factory relocated to or where the import competition came from. This legislation will also ensure automatic certification for workers covered by ITC injury determinations, which is a major issue in the current economy in which products and technologies quickly are eclipsed and job security is never ensured. Furthermore, this legislation will work to synchronize the Trade Assistance Act certification process which is currently on a firm-by-firm basis. Consistency in our treatment of workers is absolutely imperative, to ensure we have an equitable system which protects the backbone of our Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY SUCCESS IN IRAQ COMMEMORATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced legislation, with the support of a number of my colleagues, entitled the ``Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' This legislation is borne from my deeply held belief that we must commend our military for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq. This legislation recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation from a grateful Nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, as lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq  did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations. 
   I very strongly believe that our Nation has a moral obligation to ensure that our veterans are treated with the respect and dignity that they deserve. One reason we are the greatest Nation in the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve to know that a grateful Nation cares about them. 
   The legislation that I introduced today, the Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007, pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, and heroism of those who fought in Iraq. First, this legislation provides an express acknowledgment by the Congress that the objectives for which the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) resolution of 2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed Forces of the United States, which performed magnificently in battle. It specifically recounts several notable achievements of the Armed Forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
   In addition, this legislation authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the American people to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the Armed Forces' military success in Iraq. This will help ensure that the Iraq War does not suffer the fate of other open-ended engagements like the Korean War, which is often called the ``Forgotten War.'' The soldiers who have served valiantly in Iraq deserve to be recognized and lauded when they return home. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation also authorizes funds to be appropriated and awarded by the Secretary of Defense to State and local governments to assist in defraying the costs of conducting suitable ``Success in Iraq'' homecoming and commemoration activities and in creating appropriate memorials honoring those who lost their lives in the war. Many of the casualties in the Iraq War come from small towns and villages in rural or economically depressed areas. The local governments are already facing substantial fiscal pressures and need help coming up with the necessary funds. 
   Finally, my legislation creates a program and authorizes funds to be appropriated pursuant to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award to each veteran of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom a grant of $5,000 to facilitate the transition to civilian life. We don't want veterans to end up homeless or unemployed or unable to take their kids on a vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus is but a small token of the affection the people of the United States have for those who risked their lives so that we may continue to live in freedom. 
   Mr. Speaker, outside my office there is a poster-board with the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing the uniform of our country. To date, the U.S. Department of Defense has confirmed 3838 casualties in Iraq. It is humbling to recognize how lucky we are to live in a Nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer knowing they may be called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. The intent of my legislation is to pay fitting tribute to these great men and women and to let them know they will not be forgotten. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to urge all of my colleagues to join me in recognizing the efforts of our brave men and women in uniform and to ensure that they can successfully transition to civilian with dignity. I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Well, my first act is to 
   give my greatest appreciation for this caring and vested freshman class, front liners, front  thinkers, front runners running toward the next generation. I cannot thank you enough for joining this Congress with one mission, and that is that we are, servants of America. 
   And I've asked today, officially, on the record, to get that article I pin, and to reemphasize the language that my good friend has before him by just holding up the Constitution and reinforcing the language that all powers herein granted shall be vested in the Congress of the United States, which shall consist of the Senate and the House. 
   And I just want to speak, somewhat weaving in to this idea of veterans and the war in Iraq and why we have the ability even to address that question of the Iraq war, because as my colleagues know, there was never a constitutional declaration of war. It was statutory. That was in the fall of 2002 when, by public law, we gave the President simply an opportunity to negotiate and then ultimately, if necessary, to use force. 
   So I raise the question, because Congress has, in some sense, been stifled by others not thinking the way the American people have asked us to think and act, and that is to focus resources on veterans, on the domestic agenda, and to be able to say that we have, in essence, finished our job in Iraq. 
   And so I wanted to offer to my good friends H.R. 4020 that the chairman of the Veterans Committee has joined me in offering, or introducing, which calls itself the Military Success Act. And of course all eyebrows will be raised. Sounds conflicted. But I thought and thought about this, and I continue to hear the terminology, cut-and-run, not willing to support the troops. So we went to the Pentagon, and in this legislation we chronicle all of the successes of the United States Military, in particular in Iraq. We do it in Iraq and not Afghanistan because that's an ongoing mission. We know that there's more work to be done there. And we come to a conclusion, and I'll just briefly read this: That the public law that we voted on in 2002 authorized by the President to use military force against Iraq, it goes on to list the indicia or the points of that bill. And it concludes by saying, according to that public law, we believe that, in fact, all of this has been achieved. A simple statement. It doesn't follow up by saying, come home. Of course, that's what I would suggest once you read a statement that says all that you were asked to do, the United States Military, you've achieved it. And we finish this up by calling on America to have days of proclamation and ribbons, and as these soldiers come home, unlike Vietnam, that we actually have days of recognition for those soldiers. And ultimately it finishes, because I heard my distinguished colleague speak of veterans, by giving these returning soldiers a $5,000 stipend. 
   Now, this does not leave out Afghanistan soldiers. This really appeals or deals with the whole idea of the fact that their mission is completed. We do it in a way to call it a military success. And we know that there are many other things that need to be done. But what that does is it gives Congress the power to make its own statement that the initiative that we voted for, statutory, the public law in 2002 that gave powers is now being brought to an end, that we, as a Congress, are saying that we applaud our military, and those resources that are now being used for the war, $120 billion, can be used for SCHIP, can be used to fix Medicare. 
   I sat down with some seniors who wanted us to fix the prescription part D. They said, Can you help us? Can you get back in there and help us to understand it? 
   And then of course, what it does, it honors our soldiers. It dashes this whole cut-and-run, this whole accusation of being nonpatriotic. 
   And so I thank my colleagues for letting me present H.R. 4020 in conjunction with the recognition of article I. This bill was introduced today. I encourage my colleagues to sign on. We think that it has a very important statement as to the authority of the Congress and the responsibilities of the Congress to control a statute that it gave powers, and seemingly the President is not willing to acknowledge that the task and the job is well done on behalf of the United States Military in Iraq. We can do better, and I think the American people are waiting for the article I-ers to take charge so that we can get back on our agenda of serving the American public. 
   I thank you for giving me the opportunity to join an important debate. I look forward to the article I pin. 
   And finally, I hope that the American public will get it, knowing that the Congress has to have the authority to go forward on their behalf.  
   This legislation, the ``Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007,'' recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation from a grateful nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq. 
   As I have stated many times, ``when our heroic young men and women willingly sacrifice life or limb on the battlefield, the nation has a moral obligation to ensure that they are treated with respect and dignity. One reason we are the greatest nation in the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve to know that a grateful nation cares about them.'' 
   My legislation, the Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007, H.R. 4020 pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, and heroism of those who fought in Iraq in the following ways: 
   A. Provides an express acknowledgment by the Congress that the objectives for which the AUMF resolution of 2002 authorized the use of force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed Forces of the United States, which performed magnificently in battle; 
   B. Recounts several notable achievements of the Armed Forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom; 
   C. Authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the American people to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the Armed Forces' military success in Iraq. This will help ensure that the Iraq War does not suffer the fate of other open-ended engagements like the Korean War, which is often called the ``Forgotten War''; 
   D. Authorizes funds to be appropriated and awarded by the Secretary of Defense to state and local governments to assist in defraying the costs of conducting suitable ``Success in Iraq'' homecoming and commemoration activities and in creating appropriate memorials honoring those who lost their lives in the war. Many of the casualties in the Iraq War come from small towns and villages in rural or economically depressed areas. The local governments are already facing substantial fiscal pressures and need help coming up with the necessary; and 
   E. Creates a program and authorizes funds to be appropriated pursuant to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award to each veteran of the Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom a grant of $5,000 to facilitate the transition to civilian life. We don't want veterans to end up homeless or unemployed or unable to take their kids on a vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus is but a small token of the affection the people of the United States have for those who risked their lives so that we may continue to live in freedom. 
   Outside my office there is a poster board with the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing the uniform of our country. It is humbling to recognize how lucky we are to live in a nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer knowing they may be called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. The intent of my legislation is to pay fitting tribute to these great men and women and to let them know they will not be forgotten. I request and welcome your support in making this message heard.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRADE AND GLOBALIZATION ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today the House passed the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007, and I was very proud to support this legislation. And I thank Chairman Rangel and, of course, Chairman Miller for their insight. 
   A couple of years ago, when we moved on the permanent normal trade relations with China, I worked with the then-Clinton administration to craft an executive order that addressed the question of the loss of jobs when there was a trade bill. We thought that this particular executive order could lay the groundwork for providing for small businesses and those various sectors of the country that would lose their employment or their economic opportunity. Well, look at the trade imbalance now. This is a forthright bill that expands the opportunities for service workers, manufacturers, insists on enrollment opportunities, and it is a good start. 
   I don't know what the journey will be on future trade bills, but America has to start standing up for its own workers, its own regions, and making sure that small businesses do not lose their economic opportunity simply because we want to engage in globalization. Globalization may be good, but Americans have to be protected, and I was very glad to vote for this legislation today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HALLIBURTON -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, yesterday in the afternoon on a bright Sunday, one of my constituents, my corporate constituents, decided to offer a press statement to indicate that they were relocating to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. 
   We know that many American companies do have their offices in Dubai, and we know it is a thriving metropolis of business. But Halliburton is one of the largest corporate government contractors in the United States; and, unfortunately, their offices located in the 18th Congressional District have had an impact on the employees who work there. 
   It is unfortunate that the arrogance of this company would suggest that they could make announcements in the brightness of sunlight on Sunday and not engage their local community leaders, their employees, and others who might be vested in the relocation of corporate headquarters. 
   So I ask the leadership of this company to come forward and answer a number of questions which I will be sending to them. And I express my own personal outrage that a company would move its corporate headquarters without the full discussion of those who are stakeholders and work every day paying their taxes as employees of this company. 
   I look forward to the light of day being shined on Halliburton. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, the Constitution of the United States is present to protect Main Street. The full faith and credit of this constitutional document will protect the men and women of America. 
   I will not stand here today and suggest that we do not have some challenges. I frankly believe that the bill we have before us is a miracle, and I thank the leadership for their strength in recharacterizing the two-page bill that anointed the Secretary of the Treasury that came from the White House. 
   But my question is, where was the Securities and Exchange Commission? Where was the FDIC, the Federal Reserve? Under the control and domination of this administration. So when we ask the question why, we need to look back at those who controlled the policies of America for the last 8 years. Where was the Secretary of the Treasury? 
   But I don't stand here to cast aspersions. I will say to you that this has been diagnosed, but America needs a second opinion. There is no enforcement in this legislation. The Financial Stability Oversight Board, no enforcement provisions; the Congressional Board, no enforcement provisions; the Inspector General, no enforcement provision. There are no criminal penalties for those who have been charged with malfeasance and criminal activities, no barring of individuals who are convicted of malfeasance and criminal activities from doing business with the United States. 
   So, in essence we give this money, and who does it go to? No listing by the Secretary of the Treasury where the first dollar will go. No separating a certain amount to help those in foreclosure in America in the small towns, hamlets and villages, when in fact we know that we could establish a Homeowners Loan Corporation and help those on Main Street. 
   Yes, I do believe we are challenged. But I believe we can come back, watch the markets, and work forward. This is a bill that hands out; it doesn't hand up. I ask my colleagues to consider the fact that we are protecting Main Street, not Wall Street.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise with great concern regarding H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. I would like to thank Chairman of Financial Services BARNEY FRANK for bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor. I also rise with a sense of the solemness of this moment. However, I rise today with the confidence that our system of Government is strong and the constitutional protections of the full faith and and credit of our Government will protect Main Street America while we reform America's Wall Street. 
   Leadership has worked without tiring to alter the language provided by the administration for the betterment of the American people. Our leadership has created a miracle by modifying the 2 page document sent by the Treasury Department last week into a 109 page document. I thank leadership for that. We toiled long into the night to incorporate Democratic principles--many of which have still not been included. 
   Where was the FDIC? Where was the SEC? Where was the Federal Reserve? 
   I have worked with leadership to offer consistent amendments that would have strengthened the punitive measures over the past week to change the administration's proposal to make it more encompassing, effective, and better for the American people. While the present legislation is impressive, it is also impressive regarding what is absent from this legislation. For example, the legislation is devoid of bankruptcy restructuring, devoid of real enforcement, and devoid of any meaningful judicial review. These are all issues that I have been very concerned about. 
   In fact, it is because I am concerned and desire that the maximum number of Americans get relief from this bill, that I offered amendments yesterday. To ensure that this bill provides relief for Americans, I offered the following amendments: 
   Set aside $125 million (in fact the amount could been more) as a firm allotment to address the question of individual American homeowners facing foreclosure in light of the absence of a bankruptcy provision; 
   Add Sense of the Congress language that Bankruptcy Code should be reviewed and amended in the future to permit bankruptcy judges to address the question of individual home mortgage restructuring; 
   Allow the courts to exercise rigorous judicial review and provide those courts with the discretion to grant injunctive and/or equitable relief if the courts determine that such relief would not destabilize financial markets; 
   Create a new, independent commission to exercise oversight over the current financial situation with enforcement powers; 
   Allow criminal liability for persons or corporate entities that have engaged in criminal malfeasance; 
   Bar persons/corporate entities found to have engaged in criminal malfeasance with malicious intent in financial markets from doing business with the Federal Government in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SAVE AMERICA'S UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND SECURE AMERICA ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, even as I stand here on the floor of the House, the residents of the gulf region, the gulf coasts of Louisiana and Texas, are still suffering from Hurricane Ike. We know as well that Hurricane Kyle has been making its way up the east coast. As we look back over the landscape this past year, we see the devastation of so much that has impacted our country through natural disasters--flooding, wind, hurricanes--and we realize that that is, by Mother Nature's way, something that will occur in this Nation on a regular basis. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and a chairperson of the Transportation Security and Critical Infrastructure Committee, I introduce today Save America's Utility Infrastructure and Secure America Act of 2008, H.R. 7230. I do so with the hope that Americans will be better prepared, not necessarily the Americans in their homes but the utility companies who every day receive our payments for electricity and finding out in times of trouble they are not prepared. 
   For example, the blackout of August, 2003, in the northeast, midwest, and adjoining parts of Canada highlighted the need for infrastructure operating improvements. 
   As the chairperson of this committee, I believe that one of the ways of securing America and making America safe is to go throughout the Nation and address the questions of the sectors that predominately are controlled by the private community. Eighty-five percent of our critical infrastructure is controlled by the private community. By that they sense that they have sort of a pass. They don't have to invest in improving the infrastructure. So today I introduce this bill because I believe they do have to make a commitment to the rate payers to improve the infrastructure. 
   For example, in our own State of Texas, our public utility commission instructed, recommended to our utility company in a heavily treed area like my city of Houston to prepluck the trees that would entangle themselves in the above-ground wires. They recommended to them, if you will, to substitute the wooden polls for steel polls. They recommended to them that they should, in fact, secure the transformers.     
   None of this was done. And they were quoted as saying, it is far more inexpensive to clean up after the fact than to do this work beforehand. So what do we have? What we had in Texas is a tragedy of hundreds and hundreds of people, maybe thousands, impacted negatively by the lack of electricity. People were on oxygen and dialysis in hospitals that were shut down, and the tragedy of a 14-year-old asthmatic boy who lost his life, among others. 
   For me that is intolerable and unacceptable. If you want the benefit of doing business here in the United States, then you must do it well. So I have introduced this bill to subject those utilities who believe cavalierly that we don't have to do it, we want to keep the money in our pocket, to criminal penalties for those who don't develop vulnerable lists that will know where the hospitals and nursing homes are and where elderly persons and asthmatic persons live so that we can accept the fact that Mother Nature does not come with an appointment, but that we can be as prepared as we possibly can be. So this bill provides criminal penalties. 
   As well, the bill requires the establishment of vulnerable lists and vulnerable neighborhoods so that we are well aware of what to do. And it also instructs the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that our infrastructure is meeting the standards that it should meet. This I believe is the way government corrects and reforms a system to make it work for the American people. 
   Madam Speaker, today as a complement to my remarks, we looked to try and correct the market. We didn't quite get there. But certainly I want to express my appreciation for the hard work of the Democratic leadership. It is clear that our friends on the other side could not muster the support for their own administration. I believe however we can make this a better bill. We can make it a better bill by ensuring that homeowners are protected, by putting money into this bill that is particularly set aside for homeowners who may be going into foreclosure. And  let it be totally disregarded that people were living above their means. Yes, there are hardworking Americans who saw the opportunity to improve their lives. But the banking institutions gave them the permission to do so. And don't put this on the backs of minorities. Hardworking minorities likewise are working to make their lives better. But it was the banking entities that gave them this, if you will, predatory loan. 
   We can do better by making this bill better, working to ensure that there is no short selling by borrowing it, and we can as well bail out Main Street as we look to reform Wall Street. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman very much, and I thank the ranking member for their work. 
   I want to point out particularly in the interest of our subcommittee on the authorizing committee, chairwoman of the Transportation Security and Critical Infrastructure, is the importance of the added amount of dollars for the Transportation Security Administration, a figure that is $307 million above the 2007 request, $6.62 billion. I am hoping that that means that we will begin to look at the entire operations of airports, to ensure that the grounds, the back side of the airport as well, are as safe as the front side, that we will be able to screen all of the employees that come on the airport grounds. 
   I am very happy to see that the port security grants are there, representing Houston and the Port of Houston. Lastly, let me say that I hope we will be able to work together on ensuring that when we have outreach and security training that we include the neighborhoods surrounding the items that may generate the kind of nonsecure incident that may occur. We must provide security for neighborhoods. 
   I hope that we will pass this bill and add the issue of securing neighborhoods to the bill.  
    Mr. Chairman, September 11, 2001, is a day that is indelibly etched in the psyche of every American and in the minds of many throughout the world. Much like the unprovoked attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, September 11 is a day that will live in infamy. And as much as Pearl Harbor changed the course of world history by precipitating the global struggle between totalitarian fascism and representative democracy, the transformative impact of September 11 in the course of American and human history is indelible. September 11 was not only the beginning of the global war on terror, but moreover, it was the day of innocence lost for a new generation of Americans. 
   Since that catastrophic day, I have put the protection of our homeland at the forefront of my legislative agenda. I believe that our collective efforts as Americans will all be in vain if we do not achieve our most important priority: the security of our Nation. Accordingly, I became then and continue to this day to be an active and engaged member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and chairwoman of the Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee. 
   Our Nation's collective response to the tragedy of September 11 exemplified what has been true of the American people since the inception of our Republic--in times of crisis, we come together and always persevere. Despite the depths of our anguish on the preceding day, on September 12 the American people demonstrated their compassion and solidarity for one another as we began the process of response, recovery, and rebuilding. We transcended our differences and came together to honor the sacrifices and losses sustained by the countless victims of September 11. Let us honor their sacrifices by passing H.R. 2638, which funds the important work of the Department of Homeland Security. 
   The Homeland Security Appropriations bill makes significant strides forward toward implementing the suggestions of the 9/11 Commission report, as well as addressing the most pressing security issues that we, as Americans, face. In particular, new emphasis has been placed on port, rail, and transit security; on the need to support state and local efforts to prevent and respond to terrorism threats and natural disasters; on aviation security; and on border and immigration security. 
   Earlier in this Congress, we passed H.R. 1684, the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act for 2008. This legislation included many significant provisions I ensured were incorporated either into the base bill or through amendments at the full committee markup, and I am pleased that my amendments are reflected in H.R. 2638, making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for FY 2008. These amendments were designed to strengthen and streamline management, organizational, personnel, and procurement issues at the Department to facilitate execution of its homeland security mission. Among these was an amendment to strip the Department's authority to develop a personnel system different from the traditional GS schedule Federal model, known as MAX-HR. In a number of critical ways, the personnel system established by the Homeland Security has been a litany of failure, and my amendment repealed a personnel system that eviscerated employee due process rights and placed in serious jeopardy the agency's ability to recruit and retain a workforce capable of accomplishing its critical missions. 
   I also worked with Chairman THOMPSON to incorporate into H.R. 1684 language authorizing Citizen Corps and the Metropolitan Medical Response System programs to strengthen emergency response and recovery efforts. The Citizen Corps Program is a critical program within the Department of Homeland Security that engages the community in emergency preparedness through public education and outreach, training, and volunteer service. My language ensured that funding will enable local Citizen Corps Councils to more adequately provide education and training for populations located around critical infrastructure. 
   Today, we are here on the floor to ensure that the department entrusted with protecting the security of our Nation is adequately funded. I believe that H.R. 2638 does exactly that, while also requiring specific new accountability and management reforms related to contracting, procurement, and competition. These reforms serve to ensure that American taxpayers get the greatest possible value for the money they provide. 
   H.R. 2638 provides $4.52 billion in funding for First Responder and Port Security Grant Programs. This figure is $1.97 billion above the President's request, and $863 million above the 2007 funding level. Even though homeland security costs continue to rise, funding levels for these grants have been cut every year 
   since their inception in 2004. These funds are used for grants to train first responders, aid preparedness in high threat communities, and protect critical infrastructure. 
   This bill also provides $6.62 billion for the Transportation Security Administration, a figure that is $307 million above 2007 funding and $219 million above the President's request. This funding will be used for a number of key programs, including explosive detection systems to protect commercial aircraft, increased and expanded air cargo explosive  screening for passenger aircraft, and a secure flight certification program requiring the Administrator of TSA to certify that no security risks are raised by TSA's Secure Flight plans that would limit screening of airline passenger names only against a subset of the full terrorist watch list. 
   Additionally, this legislation appropriates significant funds for efforts to secure America's borders: $8.8 billion is provided for customs and border protection, including border security fencing and other tactical infrastructure, as well as 3,000 additional border security agents. The committee mark adds $27 million for 250 additional Customs and Border Patrol officers for commercial operations and Customs Trade Partnership against Terrorism validation, verifying that ``trusted shippers'' have in place necessary security measures, as mandated in the SAFE Port Act. Additionally, $4.8 billion is appropriated for immigrations and custom enforcement, including the Federal Protective Service, a figure which is $322 million above 2007 and $15 million above the President's request. 
   This appropriations bill also funds a number of other crucial programs. It provides $272 million for infrastructure protection, $32 million above the President's request and $44 million above 2007 funding, to be used to identify critical infrastructure, and assess security vulnerabilities. 
   Additionally, $685 million, $17 million above the President's request and $150 million above 2007, is appropriated for FEMA management, including funding for regional offices responsible for assisting state and local communities prepare for and respond to disasters. This money will fund the necessary improvements to FEMA's management operations, whose weaknesses were laid bare in the shamefully catastrophic response to Hurricane Katrina. This bill provides a further $1.7 billion to assist State and local governments following a declared disaster or emergency, and $120 million for projects that reduce the risks associated with disasters. 
   In conclusion, I stand here remembering those who still suffer, whose hearts still ache over the loss of so many innocent and interrupted lives. My prayer is that for those who lost a father, a mother, a husband, a wife, a child, or a friend will in the days and years ahead take comfort in the certain knowledge that they have gone on to claim the greatest prize, a place in the Lord's loving arms. 
    Mr. Chairman, the best way to honor the memory of those lost in the inferno of 9/11, is to do all we can to ensure that it never happens again. The best way to do that is to bolster the efficacy, accountability, and our oversight over the Department of Homeland Security, which we created in the aftermath of 9/11 to protect and preserve our Nation which we all hold so dear. I encourage all my colleagues to vote for this legislation, and to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security can continue its important work protecting our homeland from all manner of threats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ARMY SPECIALIST JOSEPH P. MICKS FEDERAL FLAG CODE AMENDMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 692, which authorizes Governors of the several States to order the National Flag to be flown at half-staff in the event of the death of a member of the Armed Forces. Section 2(a) would add ``or the death of a member of the Armed Forces from any State, territory, or possession who dies while serving on active duty'' to the list of persons under 4 D.S.C. &#167;7(m) for whom the Flag should be flown at half-staff for a period of ten days from the date of death. 
   Under section 2(b), the bill authorizes the Governor of a State, territory, or possession to issue a proclamation under section 7(m), as amended by the Act, ordering the Flag to be flown at half-staff in honor of a member of Armed Forces who dies while on active duty. 
   Madam Speaker, it is a privilege for me to support a bill that honors the service of our fallen members of the Armed Forces who die while serving on active duty. These brave men and women have given great contributions and have made incredible personal sacrifices so that all of us in this country might live in a safe and secure Nation and world. In my State of Texas, 287 service members have already given the last full measure of devotion in Operation Iraqi Freedom. I think everyone of these fallen heroes deserve recognition for their supreme sacrifice. 
   Flying the Federal Flag at half staff to honor the service of fallen members of the Armed Forces is only a small step towards repaying  the insurmountable debt that all of us owe to all veterans. For, what is the price of freedom? 
   As President Kennedy once said, ``The price of freedom is high, but Americans have always paid it.'' And no one has paid a higher price than the brave men and women through the years who gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. Whether it is the ultimate sacrifice of life or the loss of limb or the loss of time with family and friends, we owe our veterans and in this case, those who have died during their service, an enormous outstanding debt of gratitude. 
   From Bunker Hill to Yorktown, from Washington, DC to the Battle of New Orleans, from Bull Run to Gettysburg and Antietam to Appomattox, brave Americans gave their lives so that the Nation might live. And from Alsace Lorain to Verdun, and Normandy to Berlin and Pearl Harbor to Okinawa, from Inchon and Correigidor to Vietnam, Lebanon, Grenada, Kuwait, Afghanistan, and Iraq, Americans have nobly sacrificed their lives so that the world may live in freedom. 
   The debt of gratitude we owe to all of the soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen who answered their Nation's call and made the supreme sacrifice can never be repaid. But we can give these fallen service men and women the recognition and honor they deserve by flying the National Flag at half-staff. 
   Madam Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in honoring our fallen heroes by supporting H.R. 692.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COPS IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud co-sponsor I rise in strong support of H.R. 1700, the COPS Improvement Act of 2007, introduced by my colleague Mr. WEINER. This act would amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, expanding the ability of the Attorney General to make grants for the COPS ON THE BEAT program. This important program provides for public safety and community policing activities, and it very simply puts more cops on the streets. 
   This legislation would bring much needed relief to our brave and overworked law enforcement officers, who are on the front line of the war against crime. At a minimum, the passage of this legislation would bring 374 additional police officers to reinforce the streets of the 18th congressional district of Texas, which I proudly represent. These 374 cops would be supported by a much needed funding increase of $17,346,456, as well as an additional $2,753,784 in technology grants to law enforcement agencies in my district. The 18th congressional district is only one of hundreds of communities across the nation that will enjoy greater security, safety, and stability as a result of this important legislation. 
   During the 1990s, the crime rates for all categories of crime in the United States fell dramatically and almost continuously, with homicide rates plunging 43 percent to reach 
   their lowest level in 35 years in 2001. Unfortunately, after this sustained drop across all geographic areas and population groups, crime rates have once again begun to rise. In particular, 2005 marked the greatest increase in violent crime in 14 years. This increase in crime, not coincidentally, corresponds with cuts to the funding of the COPS program by the GOP-led Congress. 
   This is not acceptable. As part of the New Direction for America ushered in by this Democratic Congress, we are committed to ensuring that Americans can enjoy real security within our Nation's borders. We are committed to guaranteeing that our country's communities, like my own 18th district, have police forces that are adequately staffed, equipped, and funded. We are committed to reinvigorating programs, like COPS, that have proven highly successful in the past. 
   Mr. Speaker, an increase in crime mandates an increase in the number of police. Since 1995, the COPS office has awarded over $11.4 billion to over 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies throughout the United States. These funds allow agencies to hire and train law enforcement officers to participate in community policing, to purchase and deploy new crime-fighting technologies, and to develop and test new and innovative policing strategies. 
   Despite the demonstrated success of the COPS program in reducing crime rates, the current administration has targeted its funding. This would jeopardize the marked headway this program has made into creating and maintaining safe communities nationwide. H.R. 1700 provides an opportunity to reverse this harmful process, and, as a result, enjoys the support of numerous law enforcement organizations, including Fraternal Order of Police, National Association of Police Organizations and the National Sheriffs' Association. 
   This bill allows us to build upon a program that has already proven successful by expanding the mission and increasing the prospects for grants under the COPS program. It allows us to both protect America's communities from increasing violent crime, and to provide adequate resources for those whom we entrust with guarding our safety. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this legislation because I believe the work of our State, local, and tribal law enforcement officials to be crucial to the security of our communities and our Nation. I believe that the program's record is clear, and the evidence shows that more cops equals less crime. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JOHN R. JUSTICE PROSECUTORS AND DEFENDERS INCENTIVE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 916, the John R. Justice Prosecutors and Defenders Incentive Act of 2007. I thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member for their effort and time in holding this very important markup hearing. 
   Madam Speaker, I support H.R. 916 because it amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to direct the Attorney General to assume the obligation to repay student loans for borrowers who agree to remain employed, for at least three years, as: (1) State or local criminal prosecutors; or (2) State, local, or Federal public defenders in criminal cases. H.R. 916 also will allow a borrower and the Attorney General to enter into an additional loan repayment agreement, after the required three-year period, for a successive period of service which may be less than three years. The bill also limits the amount paid under such program on behalf of any borrower to $10,000 per calendar year and $60,000 total. 
   Madam Speaker, this bipartisan legislation will benefit our criminal justice system and our communities by creating a student loan repayment program for law school graduates who agree to serve for at least 3 years as criminal prosecutors or public defenders. 
   Madam Speaker, over recent years we have witnessed the difficulty prosecutor and public defender offices across the country have had attracting and retaining qualified attorneys. We have also seen that our communities suffer when the criminal justice system fails to obtain and retain a sufficient supply of experienced prosecutors and defenders. Under those trying circumstances, the resulting effect is that criminal caseloads become unmanageable, cases can be delayed or mishandled, serious crimes may go unprosecuted, and innocent defendants may be sent to jail. H.R. 916 will improve the administration of the criminal justice system to recruit and retain talented attorneys and help that system function more effectively. 
   Although I support H.R. 916, it needs to go a step further in ensuring that bright lawyers will lend their services to civil public service legal careers that include legal aid to this country's most disadvantaged and vulnerable populations. That is why during the markup of H.R. 916 I strongly supported the Nadler Amendment, which included civil legal aid attorneys in the category of lawyers eligible for loan forgiveness. Indeed, the Nadler Amendment is comparable to more extensive legislation that I plan to introduce. 
   Including civil legal aid attorneys in the group who may qualify for loan forgiveness when committing to work in public service will help to recruit and retain legal aid lawyers so that low-income Americans receive the legal assistance they need. Specifically, the Amendment would provide a loan repayment program for new law graduates who work for legal aid.  
   Providing loan relief for legal aid attorneys is crucial. Legal Aid attorneys protect the safety, security, and health of low-income citizens nationwide. Support for such programs not only provides relief for prospective legal aid attorneys but also for the most 
   vulnerable members of our population. Such programs are available for Federal prosecutors and other Federal employees. But, for the legal aid attorneys--who have the lowest incomes--there currently is not enough access to loan repayment programs. We must ensure that legal aid attorneys receive the financial incentives they need to commit to a career in legal aid. 
   Without such incentive as loan relief, the legal aid field will continue to fall far short of the mark to meet the needs and demands of requests for legal assistance. Despite the importance of the services legal aid lawyers provide, almost half of the eligible people seeking assistance from Legal Aid are being turned away because of a lack of resources. As law school tuition has skyrocketed, so has a young lawyer's debt. A recent survey found that with median law school debt at $70,000 with an additional $16,000 in undergraduate debt, over 65 percent of new law school graduates were prevented from even considering a public service career. 
   Given the financial realities, individuals who take positions with legal aid often leave after two or three years. One Midwestern program cited a turnover rate of 60 percent over a two year period, with an average tenure for new attorneys of 17 months. Many of these young attorneys leave at a time when they have just develop necessary experience, creating a revolving door of inexperienced lawyers. This turnover dramatically decreases the efficiency of the program and the vital services it provides. Such a bill would allow young lawyers to choose a career in public service without having to bear the heavy burden of law school debt on their own. 
   Madam Speaker, whether legal aid attorneys, prosecutors or public defenders, public service attorneys must be given some comparable incentive to choose a career in public service instead of a career in the higher-paying private sector arena. One of the primary reasons for the recruiting difficulty of the administration of the criminal justice system is that huge amounts of student debt have pulled students in the opposite direction of public service careers such as those of prosecutors and defenders. Why? We all know that no one is going to get rich going into service careers such as teachers, social workers, and prosecutors and public defenders especially when they are starting out with enormous student loan obligations. That is why we must give those who wish to serve in public service careers incentive such as loan forgiveness so that they will not forgo service careers simply because they are buried in mounds of student loans. 
   H.R. 916, which authorizes $25 million in appropriations for FY08, establishes a program of student loan repayment for borrowers who agree to remain employed, for at least 3 years, as State or local criminal prosecutors or as State, local or Federal public defenders in criminal cases (note that Federal prosecutors are already eligible for loan relief through existing Federal programs). The 3 year period is comparable to other loan forgiveness programs. 
   Other important aspects of the bill include: allowing eligible attorneys to receive student loan debt repayments of up to $10,000 per year, with a maximum aggregate over time of $60,000; covering student loans made, insured or guaranteed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, including consolidation loans; providing that repayments benefits be made available to eligible attorneys on a first-come, first served basis, subject to the availability of appropriations; and permitting attorneys to enter into additional loan repayment agreements, after the required 3-year period, for additional periods of service. The bill also sets safeguards to ensure loan forgiveness participants satisfy their commitments by requiring attorneys to repay the Government if they do not complete their required period of service. 
   Madam Speaker, this bill has bipartisan support as well as wide support in the legal community. H.R. 916 is supported by the American Bar Association, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of Prosecutor Coordinators, the National Legal Aid and Defender Association and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. 
   Madam Speaker, I strongly support this bill and urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE TUSKEGEE AIRMEN -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I had an honor today that will be forever embedded in my heart; and that was to watch the Tuskegee Airmen, of which my father-in-law, Phillip Ferguson Lee, was an active and proud member, be honored with the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   I thank with all of my heart Representative CHARLIE RANGEL, Senator Levin, and all of the participants who commemorated and celebrated brave men who sacrificed their life in World War II but yet were treated worse than the Nazi soldiers who were captured and held here in the United States. In spite of color and racism, they rose to the highest occasion. 
   That is why I am so proud to be part of this majority that supported an emergency supplemental that would dignify our troops and bring them home with success and a budget today that was voted with the largest amount for dollars for veterans in the history of the United States. 
   Thank you to my father-in-law, Phillip Ferguson Lee, and all the Tuskegee Airmen who now are so proud to receive the Congressional Gold Medal. But, more importantly, they are proud to be Americans, World War II veterans who never, never denied their leadership in the United States of America. God bless them and God bless the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (A SALUTE TO WOMEN DURING NATIONAL WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise this afternoon to comment on what has been an important journey that this House has taken. As I do that, might I also mention that we celebrate National Women's History Month and salute the women Members of the United States Congress, and particularly salute and offer my admiration for our new Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. 
   At the same time, I want to pay tribute to my mother, Ivalita Jackson, and my late aunt and all of the women in my family. Also might I especially pay tribute to the women of the 18th Congressional District. They are certainly strong, and they certainly have invested, not only in Houston, Texas, but in this Nation. Dominique de Menil, Christy Adair, the businesswomen of our community, Ninfa Lorenzo, and so many others that symbolize the kind of strength that women have exhibited as strong Americans. 
   I am also quite enthusiastic about the fact that we will soon have the bust of an early suffragette in legislation that just passed and was signed by the President that I authored, along with Senator Clinton in the other body, and that is the bust of Sojourner Truth, an abolitionist and a woman suffragette. 
   We have come a long way, but we have a long way to go. So I simply wanted to capture very briefly the journey that we took. 
   Last week, this body voted 218 votes for the emergency supplemental that would set a timeline to bring our troops home, men and women who have been on the front lines in Iraq, who will come home now with dignity and success because the military benchmarks have been met. Saddam Hussein has  been deposed, there have been no findings of weapons of mass destruction, and, frankly, it is time now, as the President has said often, for Iraq to stand up and for us to stand down. It was a courageous vote, and I am delighted that we unified the Nation and were successful. 
   Mr. Speaker, we traveled through the week. We passed hurricane recovery legislation that was never passed in the last Congress. And now we have a budget that defends America. It lifts up firefighters and law enforcement officers. It provides middle-class tax credits, like the child tax credit and marriage penalty relief. It looks forward to fixing the alternative minimum tax. It protects the middle class. It engages working America by providing health care for all of America's children. $50 billion is in this budget. 
   What concerns me, Mr. Speaker, is although I believe in democracy, what concerns me is when my friends on the other side of the aisle continue to play procedural games. You just saw a few minutes ago the objection to setting the time for us to come back after the work recess, the repeating and the re-voting of votes over and over again, dilatory tactics so that this body cannot move forward and pass legislation. Albeit over the last 10 or 12 years that I have been here under the Republican majority, they couldn't get after the tragedy of 9/11, a real 9/11 bill passed. We did it in the first 20 days. They couldn't pass a Medicare prescription drug bill that wouldn't hurt the senior citizens who are still trying to find out how can I pay and leap over the donut hole. They couldn't do it, and we are doing it. 
   Over and over again, moneys would come back into the Federal Government because of the poor structure of SCHIP, the State Children's Health Insurance Program. They weren't prepared to fully fund it, and we are. The collapse and debacle of Leave No Child Behind that disrespects teachers and takes learning away from children, they could not fix it; but we are going to fix it. 
   So my instructions to my friends as we go home for Passover and Easter and other religious holidays that we will commemorate, a season of peace, come back with the attitude of working for America and not for yourselves. Come back with the attitude of being respectful to the process of democracy. The majority represents the American people now, and the American people want change, not bickering. They want bipartisanship, not divisiveness. 
   When you have a budget that fully funds defense, but yet allows us to be able to be compassionate with the heart and support the American Dream, then this side of the aisle should stop with the dilatory tactics. 
   Mr. Speaker, I hope when we return, we will be a bipartisan Congress and move America forward. The Democrats have taken the leadership. We are doing the right thing, and I want to thank them for all their work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairwoman, let me thank the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, CAROLYN KILPATRICK, and Mr. BOBBY SCOTT for joining with us as the Congressional Black Caucus so that we could really emphasize what compassion and the American dream is all about and equate it to the Congressional Black Caucus budget that really responds to the tragedy that has occurred under this administration. 
   The surplus, as you can see, that we had in 2000 under the Bush administration declines $8.4 trillion. That is what we attack. 
   In fact, the Congressional Black Caucus budget reduces the deficit $107 billion less of a deficit than even the Democratic budget and $339 billion less cumulative deficit than the President's budget. In fact, we saved some $18.3 billion less in interest than the Democratic budget and $27.7 billion in interest than the President's budget. We take this deficit and turn it around. We save the country this enormous burden that they have with respect to the deficit and the interest. 
   In addition, as you can see, interest payments on the debt weren't the priority under this President's budget and under this administration. They have gotten completely out of control. That is why we are feeling the pinch, and the Congressional Black Caucus budget responds to that immediately. 
   Now, let me talk specifically about what we do, why we represent the American dream, why we focus on real compassion, and we do it in a fiscally secure and responsible manner. 
   We look at this map, we will see the numbers of children that are uninsured in America. Some of the States that we would think are prosperous States, such as Florida and Texas, the President's own State, my State, has over 12% and going as high as 40 percent of the children are uninsured; California, 12 percent or more are uninsured. Vote for the Compassionate Budget and for the CBC budget and vote for the Democratic Budget that strongly represents the needs of Americans.     
   Numbers of us in these different colors here, 8 to 12 percent are uninsured. 
   The Congressional Black Caucus budget is compassionate. Why? Because we provide resources for housing. We provide resources for transportation. We don't leave any firefighter or law enforcement officers behind. And we ensure homeland security. 
   But we are the compassionate budget. We are the American Dream. We ensure that children, who are our precious resources, have the ability to get complete children's health insurance. 
   I ask my colleagues to support a budget that ensures compassion and the American Dream and believes in eliminating the deficit. Vote for the Congressional Black Caucus Budget.  
   Madam Chairwoman, I rise to support H. Con. Res. 99, the Congressional Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2008. But more than that, I rise to welcome a new day. For the past six years, the federal budgets put forward by the Bush Administration and the Republican Congress have cut funds for critical American priorities and, incredibly, turned a $5.4 trillion surplus into a $8.8 trillion deficit over the same period. Starting today, the new Democratic majority in the House leads America in a new fiscal direction. And we do it without raising taxes. In fact, Madam Chairwoman, thanks to the treatment and applicability of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) called for in the budget resolution, 19 million Americans will pay less in taxes that they otherwise would. This week we will pass a fiscally responsible budget with the right priorities for the American people, present and future. 
   For that, I wish to thank the Chairman of the Budget Committee, Mr. SPRATT, a man of uncommon grace and mastery of budgetary arcane. I wish to thank our great Speaker, Ms. PELOSI, for never letting us forget that we are here for one reason only, and that is to address the real needs and priorities of real Americans confronting the real problems of their real lives in the real world. Finally, let me thank the remarkable leadership team which has worked long, hard, and tireless to keep us informed, cooperative, and united in our resolve to do the necessary work to America better. 
   Madam Chairwoman, H. Con. Res. 99, better reflects the priorities and values of the American people. After all, a budget is much more than a balance sheet, an income statement, a financial scorecard. Rather, it the expression in fiscal terms of who we are and what we believe. In short, a budget is a financial reflection of our national character. And as it is by a person's character that you know her, so too it is with a nation. Look at a nation's budget and you will see how it treats its children in the dawn of life; its elderly in the twilight of life; its poor and disabled and helpless in the shadows of life; and the earth, the sustainer of life. Look closely at the choices it makes regarding the neediest and most vulnerable of its people, and you will know the true character of a nation. 
   Madam Chairwoman, America and the world can be proud of the choices we make in this budget resolution. Unlike the budgets of the last six years, the budget brought to the floor by the new House majority reflects the best angels of our nature. As I discuss in more detail, H. Con. Res. 99 expands health care for our children. It provides our soldiers and veterans with the care worthy of their sacrifice; it is faithful to President Lincoln's injunction ``to care for him who has borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan.'' This budget resolution supports education for a 21st century workforce and a growing economy. It invests in renewable energy for an energy independent America that faces up to the challenge of global warming. 
   Equally important, Madam Chairwoman, the majority's budget resolution represents a return to fiscal responsibility and budgetary accountability. I am proud to support a budget that reflects the care and fidelity of a wise steward of the taxpayers' hard-earned money. The American people can be assured that the new majority in Congress will not be profligate with the public treasury. 
   The new Democratic-led Congress has instituted ``pay as you go'' or ``PAYGO'' budgeting, requiring that new spending be offset, which in the 1990s helped turn deficits to surpluses. We have also reformed the earmark process, cutting in half the number of budget ``earmarks'' for specific Member projects, requiring transparency in the process, and exposing such earmarks as the infamous ``Bridge to Nowhere.'' 
   Madam Chairwoman, nothing engenders more public cynicism than the shameful conduct of some to avoid paying taxes legitimately owed. The overwhelming majority of Americans obey the law, play by 
   the rules, pay their taxes, and work to improve their communities. There is, however, a small but significant percentage of Americans and corporations that do not. That is going to end. In this budget, we invest in an increased effort to make sure that taxpayers pay the taxes they owe. The Internal Revenue Service has estimated that the tax gap--the amount of taxes owed under current law but not collected--has ballooned to $345 billion since 2001. This has left middle-class families picking up the tab for those who refuse to obey the law. It is shocking to think, Madam Chairwoman, that amount of taxes owed by these scofflaws approximates the costs Americans have paid to date to finance the Iraq War. 
   The new Democratic-led Congress also will save millions by investing in efforts to identify and eliminate wasteful spending and improve government efficiency in Social Security, Medicare, and unemployment insurance. Every dollar invested in conducting Social Security ongoing disability reviews results in $10 of savings. The savings could total $3 billion. 
   Madam Chairwowan, this budget resolution correctly assumes that substantial savings can be realized from more vigorous efforts by the Defense Department (with increased Congressional oversight) to root out fraud, abuse, and wasteful spending. It is totally unacceptable that unlike the typical taxpayer, small business, or large corporation, the Defense Department still cannot pass a standard audit. The Pentagon cannot adequately track what it owns or spends. We just know that it's a lot. Defense auditors estimate that more than one of six dollars they have audited for Iraq is suspect, including $2.7 billion in sole-source, single-bidder contracts. 
   The American people can have confidence that lax financial controls and fiscal mismanagement are a thing of the past now that Democrats are the majority party in Congress. Under this budget resolution, House Committees will conduct performance reviews to make sure that government programs are working as intended. We will work to eliminate unnecessary and wasteful spending. We know that oversight and financial controls work. Similar efforts produced 385 recommendations for smarter ways to improve government services, saving billions during the Clinton Administration. 
   Madam Chairwoman, the new House majority pledged that we would work together to restore our economic health, reclaim our leadership position in the world, advance our national security, and invest in the future. We promised to restore fiscal responsibility and began by instituting tough pay-as-you-go rules. And we have been delivering. 
   For example, in the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress, we passed with bipartisan support procedures imposing discipline and transparency in congressional spending. With  bipartisan support, we also passed legislation to implement recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, increased the minimum wage, paved the way for lower prescription drug costs, cut student loan costs, and redirected oil subsidies towards investments in renewable energy. We did all of this while maintaining our commitment to fiscal discipline. 
   The 2008 budget resolution advances these priorities. The budget balances in 2012 while accommodating additional tax relief for millions of middle-income families. It allocates funding for national priorities like children's health care and education. It begins to reverse six years of disinvestment in education, infrastructure, and innovation. The budget resolution is the crucial next step to realizing the initiatives we have developed to move the country forward and to set us on a course to build the future we want for our children and grandchildren. 
   And, as I have stated, it does all this without raising taxes. 
   Madam Chairwoman, discretionary spending, or the amount available to be allocated through the annual appropriations process, accounts for about one-third of all federal spending. The budget resolution provides the Appropriations Committee with $954.9 billion in discretionary budget authority in FY 2008, $22.1 billion more than the administration's request as re-estimated by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The Appropriations Committee will subdivide this amount (known as a 302(a) allocation) among the various appropriations bills. 
   In addition to the $954.9 billion in regular FY 2008 appropriations, the resolution assumes $145.2 billion in emergency appropriations for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for FY 2008, as requested by the administration. When this emergency funding is added to the $954.9 billion in regular appropriations, a total of $1.1 trillion in discretionary spending could be available in FY 2008 under the resolution. I think it important that the American people know where and how their money will be spent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support of The Congressional Progressive Caucus Fiscal Year 2008-17 ``Peace & Security'' Budget Alternative. The American people spoke loud and clear last November. They wanted change, accountability, and a new course of action. This budget is a direct answer to the demands of the American people and steers us in a new direction. With this budget we can usher in a new era of fiscal responsibility that this current administration has failed to adhere to. The budget is morally sound, as it redirects funding to domestic spending programs that benefit the American middle class, the backbone of our great Nation. Most importantly this budget meets our moral obligation to all of our veterans. This budget ends the war and brings our troops home and moves this country toward an agenda of peace and security. 
   The news of the horrible living conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center raised our national consciousness regarding the need to do more--much more--for wounded and injured service members and to upgrade the administrative systems that support them. Simply put, this budget treats the heroic young men and women who sacrifice life and limb with the respect and dignity they deserve. This budget guarantees full funding for health care (including mental health care) for all veterans. The Progressive Caucus budget makes veterans' health care a new federal entitlement. It will require the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to make mandatory appropriations for VA health care based upon the following formula: the amount of funds available for VA medical care in FY2008 would equal 130 percent of the total obligations made by the VA for medical care programs in FY2005. 
   Let us send the right message to our young men and women returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve better, we owe it to them, and we have a duty to answer the will of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILD FREE-ROAMING HORSES AND BURROS SALE AND SLAUGHTER PROHIBITION -- (House of Representatives - April 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 249, which will ``Restore the Prohibition on the Commercial Sale and Slaughter of Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros.'' I am sure my colleagues would agree that horses are as American as apple pie, and a symbol of our great Nation. From the time of great explorers like Lewis and Clark to the present day celebration at Churchill Downs, horses have been an intricate part of our society. To their owners, they are companions, for law enforcement officials they are colleagues, but to the American people they have never served as a source of food. 
   Last year, I stood on this floor in support of H.R. 503, American Horse Slaughter Prevention Act. That act sought to prohibit the horrendous practice of domestic horse slaughter for consumption. At the time I spoke out against the appalling practices of this industry that tend to fly under the radar. Horses are forced to travel across our borders for more than 24 hours without rest, water or food in trailers that provide little protection from the elements. Many horses--sick, lame, pregnant or blind--are in distress even before being loaded. 
   Once at the slaughterhouse, the suffering gets worse. Horses are left for long periods in tightly packed trailers, subjected to further extremes of heat and cold. In hot weather, thirst is acute. Downed animals are unable to rise. All the horses are moved off forcibly when it's time to unload and hurried through the facility into the kill box. In the face of these deplorable conditions, including overcrowding, deafening noise, and the smell of blood, the horses typically become desperate, exhibiting fear typical of ``flight'' behavior--pacing in prance-like movements with their ears pinned back against their heads and eyes wide open. 
   Despite the Federal mandate that horses be rendered unconscious before being put to death, many horses are killed alive by repeated blows to the head with captive bolt pistols. While writhing in pain, the coup de grace is administered by a slit of the throat. The dead animal is then processed for shipment overseas and destined for a foreign dining table. 
   Mr. Chairman, I support H.R. 249 because it extends protection to wild free-roaming horses and burros. This legislation closes the final loophole that jobbers--the middlemen for slaughterhouses--can use. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 249. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - April 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, just a few minutes ago, many of us gathered to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. I'm always reminded that even in his death, we celebrate his life. 
   And as I think of him, I think of the 60th anniversary of Israel, for Dr. King was inspired by a land that sought its freedom. And so it is important that we honor this Nation State; celebrate it for peacefully living in the mid east. 
   And as I travel to Israel, there are more people that I meet that are peace loving, and look forward to a time when they can live alongside of their brothers and sisters in peace. Let us thank them for the history that they have, and as well, what they give around the world. 
   It is important to take note that Israel has trained those of us who are seeking a greater understanding of how to fight the war on terror, how to have first responders. They have certainly worked to be able to be a friend to the world. 
   So, again, let me congratulate Israel on its 60th anniversary, and most importantly, the people of Israel for its peace. I might also acknowledge that we extend our hand of friendship. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNITY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, before I discuss the topic upon which I arise to speak, I do want to join my colleagues in celebrating the reauthorization of the United States Fire Administration Act. As a member of the Homeland Security Committee since its origin after 2001, I am a direct witness of the work of our first responders around the Nation. It is important that we recognize the elements of this bill and the funding that is necessary to ensure a system of first responders that works. 
   Yesterday, I met with the chiefs of the fire departments of departments in my State of Texas. I salute them. Through their efforts, we were able to pass this bill. I congratulate the sponsor, and I believe that the National Fire Incident Reporting System improvements that will come about are important; the fire technology assistance and dissemination will be important that is reauthorized; the encouraging of the adoption of standards for firefighter health and safety, one of the ills that we are still dealing with after 9/11, people who have gotten sick after 9/11 and still not addressed; and the coordination on fire service-based emergency medical services is important; and as well, the funding that will come about, upwards of $100 million. 
   Certainly, I encourage them to work with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the work that we can do together. Congratulations on the reauthorization of this bill. I stand as a strong supporter. 
   I rise today, as my colleagues have done, to acknowledge the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. King. That will be tomorrow. I head to Memphis to commemorate that. I just got through speaking to a number of constituents from Texas Southern University and from Prairie View A&M. I asked them about presidential politics. They were thoughtful and discussed with me the balance that they saw in the candidates that happened to be running in the Democratic primary. 
   What I have seen as we watched this debate is really a call on the sensitivities of America, race and gender, and we have seen the tensions and the divisiveness; rather than focus on the message and mission of an American hero like Dr. King, who talked about unity and talked about, as was said by his son today, the horrible evil of racism and poverty and militarism. But even in that voice, he spoke of unity. 
   Today, I rise to call upon the candidates themselves, that whoever will run to the mike first and call upon unity in America may find a surprising response from all the voters, wherever they might be. For Americans are good people. They extend themselves to the battlefields of Afghanistan and Iraq so that others might have freedom and democracy. 
   I might imagine that our soldiers would look back on this divisiveness and the name calling and someone castigating one person because they are for one candidate over another, and ask whether or not we truly understand freedom and democracy. It is choice, it is the ability to make your choice. Yet, it is the ability to come together and unify around the goodness of America. 
   I was glad to hear Majority Whip CLYBURN say today that, ``time is neutral.'' As Martin Luther King said, ``It is neutral because it says nothing. It is what you do with it.'' What he reminded us is that people of ill will seem to use time more effectively than people of good will. 
   I truly believe that we have outstanding Americans running for this office. I will be pushing for the one that happens to be in my party, strongly and enthusiastically. But what I will come to this floor and this Congress for is to join me in putting together a reconciliation commission in America. Not just because of the candidacy and the campaigns that we have seen, but because Americans are still sensitive about race and about gender, two groups of people that have been disenfranchised in our history. Yet, we are blessed to be in America, recognizing that many of us have made strides. I am proud to stand here as an African American woman. Some might say I have double issues. But I have double benefits, double celebration. 
   Yet, there are those who I believe would benefit from having this broad discussion, this reconciliation in America about women who were disenfranchised until 1920, woman who suffer from the lack of pay equity, and those who live under a minority umbrella, who themselves still remain discriminated against in schools and jobs and in corporate America. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can benefit from this wonderful debate and discourse between someone who's an African American male with the potential of being the President of the United States and a woman who has the potential of being President of the United States. Why don't we celebrate in that difference and diversity? Why don't we call for unity, because America is greater than our individual differences. As Martin Luther King said, ``It can be the promised land. Why don't we attempt to go there together.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERIM APPOINTMENT OF UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS -- (House of Representatives - March 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman, and I rise with sadness to support this legislation that clears up the obviously ongoing abuse and disrespect of the integrity of the three branches of government. 
   We passed the PATRIOT Act that some of us did not support, but we did not intend for it to be used to avoid the constitutional Senate confirmation process. That is what has happened. We understand now that the Attorney General unfortunately may have been in meetings, may have been informed of issues dealing with the termination of U.S. Attorneys without providing that direct information to the United States Congress. 
   This legislation again sets the Constitution back on its feet. It allows for Senate confirmation for U.S. Attorneys, and it puts back on track the integrity in terms of the respect and integrity that is necessary for the judiciary and legal system that the American people have come to understand and believe. I believe we should support this bill, and I hope we will get back on track with the relationship between Congress, the executive, and the judiciary.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 580, which amends chapter 35 of title 28 of the United States Code to restore the 120-day limit on the term of a United States Attorney appointed on an interim basis by the Attorney General. The shocking disclosures of the last few weeks provide all the justification needed to adopt this salutary measure promptly and by an overwhelming margin. Our friends in the other body passed companion legislation last week by a vote of 94-2. 
   Mr. Speaker, United States Attorneys are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. Each United States Attorney so appointed is authorized to serve a 4-year term but is subject to removal by the President without cause. The Senate's advise and consent process formally checks the power of the President by requiring the United States Attorney nominee to go through a confirmation process. In addition, Senators also play a particularly influential informal role in the nomination of United States Attorneys. 
   Typically, a President, prior to appointing a new United States Attorney, consults with the Senators from the State where the vacancy exists if they are members of the President's political party. The President usually accepts the nominee recommended by the Senator or other official. This tradition, called ``senatorial courtesy,'' serves as an informal check on the President's appointment power.  
   Since the Civil War, the judiciary has been empowered to fill vacancies in the office of the United States Attorney. In 1966, that authority was codified at 28 U.S.C. &#167;546. When a United States Attorney position became vacant, the district court in the district where the vacancy occurred named a temporary replacement to serve until the vacancy was filled. In 1986, in response to a request by the Attorney General that its office be vested with authority to appoint interim United States Attorneys, Congress amended the statute to add former section 546(d). 
   Pursuant to this authority, the Attorney General was authorized to appoint an interim United States Attorney for 120 days and, if the Senate did not confirm a new United States Attorney within such period, the district court was then authorized to appoint an interim United States Attorney to serve until a permanent replacement was confirmed. By having the district court play a role in the selection of an interim United States Attorney, former section 546(d) allowed the judicial branch to act as a check on executive power. In practice, if a vacancy was expected, the Attorney General would solicit the opinion of the chief judge of the relevant district regarding possible temporary appointments. 
   Twenty years later, section 546 was amended again in the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005. This legislation amended section 546(c) to provide that ``[a] person appointed as United States attorney under this section may serve until the qualification of a United States Attorney for such district 
   appointed by the President'' under 28 U.S.C. &#167;541. The extent of the legislative history of this provision is one sentence appearing in the conference report accompanying the act: ``Section 502 [effecting the amendments to section 546] is a new section and addresses an inconsistency in the appointment process of United States Attorneys.'' 
   Although the legislative purpose is unclear, the practical effect is not. The act amended section 546 in two critical respects. First, it effectively removed district court judges from the interim appointment process and vested the Attorney General with the sole power to appoint interim United States Attorneys. Second, the act eliminated the 120-day limit on the term of an interim United States Attorney appointed by the Attorney General. As a result, judicial input in the interim appointment process was eliminated. Even more problematic, it created a possible loophole that permits United States Attorneys appointed on an interim basis to serve indefinitely without ever being subjected to a Senate confirmation process, which is plainly a result not contemplated by the Framers. 
   Mr. Speaker, excluding changes in administration, it is rare for a United States Attorney to not complete his or her 4-year term of appointment. According to the Congressional Research Service, only 54 United States Attorneys between 1981 and 2006 did not complete their 4-year terms. Of these, 30 obtained other public sector positions or sought elective office, 15 entered or returned to private practice, and 1 died. Of the remaining eight United States Attorneys, two were apparently dismissed by the President, and three apparently resigned after news reports indicated they had engaged in questionable personal actions. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the past few months disturbing stories appeared in the news media reporting that several United States Attorneys had been asked to resign by the Justice Department. It has now been confirmed that at least seven United States Attorneys were asked to resign on December 7, 2006. An eighth United States Attorney was subsequently asked to resign. They include the following: H.E. Cummins, III, U.S. Attorney, E.D. Ark.; John McKay, U.S. Attorney, W.D. Wash.; David Iglesias, U.S. Attorney, D. N.M.; Paul K. Charlton, U.S. Attorney, D. Ariz.; Carol Lam, U.S. Attorney, S.D. Calif.; Daniel Bogden, U.S. Attorney, D. Nev.; Kevin Ryan, N.D. Calif.; and Margaret Chiara, W.D. Mich. 
   On March 6, 2007, the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law held a hearing entitled, ``H.R. 580, Restoring Checks and Balances in the Confirmation Process of United States Attorneys.'' Witnesses at the hearing included six of the eight former United States Attorneys and William Moschella, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General, among other witnesses. 
   Six of the six former United States Attorneys testified at the hearing and each testified that he or she was not told in advance why he or she was being asked to resign. Upon further inquiry, however, Messrs. Charlton and Bogden were advised by the then Acting Assistant Attorney General, William Mercer, that they were terminated essentially to make way for other Republicans to enhance their credential and pad their resumes. In addition, Messrs. Iglesias and McKay testified about inappropriate inquiries they received from Members of Congress concerning pending investigation, which they surmised may have led to their forced resignations. 
   Mr. Speaker, the USA PATRIOT Act Reauthorization provision on interim U.S. Attorneys should be repealed for two reasons. First, Members of Congress did not get an opportunity to vet or debate the provision that is current law. Rather the Republican leadership of the 109th Congress slipped the provision into the conference report at the request of the Department of Justice. Not even Senate Judiciary Chairman ARLEN SPECTER, whose chief of staff was responsible for inserting the provision, knew about its existence. 
   Second, it is now clear that the manifest intention of the proponents of the provision was to allow interim appointees to serve indefinitely and to circumvent Senate confirmation. We know now, for example, that in a September 13, 2006 e-mail to former White House Counsel Harriet Miers, Attorney General Chief of Staff Kyle Sampson wrote:   
   I strongly recommend that, as a matter of Administration policy, we utilize the new statutory provisions that authorize the Attorney General to make U.S. Attorney appointments.   
   Mr. Sampson further said that by using the new provision, DOJ could ``give far less deference to home-State Senators and thereby get (1) our preferred person appointed and (2) do it far faster and more efficiently, at less political cost to the White House.'' 
   Regarding the interim appointment of Tim Griffin at the request of Karl Rove and Harriet Miers, Mr. Sampson wrote to Monica Goodling, Senior Counsel to the White House and Liaison to the White House on December 19, 2006 the following:   
   I think we should gum this to death: ask the Senators to give Tim a chance, meet with him, give him some time in office to see how he performs, etc. If they ultimately say, `no never' (and the longer we can forestall that, the better), then we can tell them we'll look for other candidates, and otherwise run out the clock. All of this should be done in `good faith,' of course.   
   Finally, we now know that after gaining this increased authority to appoint interim U.S. Attorneys indefinitely, the administration has exploited the provision to fire U.S. Attorneys for political reasons. A mass purge of this sort is unprecedented in recent history. The Department of Justice and the White House coordinated this purge. According to an administration ``hit list'' released on Tuesday, U.S. Attorneys were targets for the purge based on their rankings. The ranking relied in large part on whether the U.S. Attorney ``exhibit[ed] loyalty to the President and Attorney General.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, until exposed by this unfortunate episode, United States Attorneys were expected to, and in fact did exercise, wide discretion in the use of resources to further the priorities of their districts. Largely a result of its origins as a distinct prosecutorial branch of the Federal Government, the office of the United States Attorney traditionally operated with an unusual level of independence from the Justice Department in a broad range of daily activities. That practice served the Nation well for more than 200 years. The practice that has been in place for less than 2 years has served the Nation poorly. It needs to end. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the author of the bill and certainly the chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, the chairman of the full committee and ranking members as well. 
   I rise to enthusiastically support H.R. 137 and announce that it is impacting so many different communities that it is imperative that there be a Federal prohibition on transporting animals interstate. There is a question of disease, there is a question of violence, and certainly with the increasing numbers of dangerous animals that attack human beings, fighting animals certainly pose a severe threat to the community. 
   This is a good bill. I am delighted to be a co-sponsor. The good news is that we are getting it through the House today. This bill has been around since the last session. I congratulate all of the authors. It is time now to spell relief by passing this bill and protecting the lives of our children and saving the lives of those who would be endangered by cockfighting and other dangerous activities with animals.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 137, the ``Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act of 2007.'' I was a co-sponsor of this legislation when it was considered in the 109th Congress and a strong supporter and co-sponsor when the bill was re-introduced in this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 137 establishes felony-level jail time (up to 3 years) for violators of the Federal animal fighting law. The bill amends Title 18 of the U.S. Code to strengthen the maximum jail time from the 1-year misdemeanor level in current law. The bill also prohibits interstate and foreign commerce in cockfighting weapons. 
   1. DOGFIGHTING AND COCKFIGHTING ARE INHUMANE AND BARBARIC ACTIVITIES 
   In a typical fight, animals are drugged to heighten their aggression and forced to keep fighting even after injuries such as pierced lungs and gouged eyes--all for the amusement and illegal wagering of handlers and spectators. Dogfighting and cockfighting are also associated with other criminal conduct, such as drug traffic, illegal firearms use, and violence toward people. Children are often present at these spectacles. Some dogfighters steal pets to use as bait for training their dogs; some allow trained fighting dogs to roam neighborhoods and endanger the public. 
   2. FELONY PENALTIES ARE NEEDED 
   Misdemeanor penalties don't provide a meaningful deterrent; they're considered a ``slap on the wrist'' or a ``cost of doing business.'' And prosecutors are reluctant to pursue animal fighting cases carrying only a misdemeanor penalty. Since the Federal animal fighting law was first enacted in 1976, authorities have pursued only a handful of cases, despite receiving innumerable informant tips about illegal interstate activity and requests to assist with state and local busts and prosecutions. 
   3. THE ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT ACT BRINGS FEDERAL LAW IN LINE WITH STATE LAWS 
   When the Federal animal fighting law was enacted in 1976, only one state had felony penalties for animal fighting. Today, dogfighting is a felony in 48 states, and cockfighting is a felony in 33 states. State laws commonly authorize jail time of 3 to 5 years or more for animal fighting. 
   4. OTHER RECENT FEDERAL ANIMAL PROTECTION LAWS THAT AMENDED TITLE 18 OF THE U.S. CODE HAVE FELONY PENALTIES 
   In 1999, Congress authorized imprisonment of up to 5 years for interstate commerce in videos depicting animal cruelty, including animal fighting (P.L. 106-152), and mandatory  jail time of up to 10 years for willfully harming or killing a federal police dog or horse (P.L. 106-254). 
   5. THERE IS NO REASON TO ALLOW INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE IN SHARP IMPLEMENTS DESIGNED EXCLUSIVELY FOR COCKFIGHTS 
   Razor-sharp knives known as ``slashers'' and ice pick-like gaffs are attached to the legs of birds to make cockfights more violent. 
   These weapons, used only in cockfights, are sold through cockfighting magazines and through the Internet. 
   6. THE ANIMAL FIGHTING INDUSTRY CONTINUES TO THRIVE ACROSS THE U.S 
   All 50 states ban dogfighting, 48 states ban cockfighting, and there has been a dramatic increase in the number of animal fighting raids by state and local authorities. Yet numerous nationally circulated animal fighting magazines still promote these cruel practices and advertise fighting animals and the accoutrements of animal fighting. There are also several active websites for animal fighting enthusiasts, and paid lobbyists advocating animal fighters' interests. 
   7. COCKFIGHTERS HAVE SPREAD DISEASES AND POSE A CONTINUING THREAT TO FARMERS AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
   As former Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman wrote in a May 2004 letter indicating the Bush Administration's endorsement of the animal fighting felony legislation:   
   ``[cockfighting has] been implicated in the introduction and spread of exotic Newcastle disease in California in 2002-2003, which cost U.S. taxpayers nearly $200 million to eradicate, and cost the U.S. poultry industry many millions more in lost export markets....... We believe that tougher penalties and prosecution will help to deter illegal movement of birds as well as the inhumane practice of cockfighting itself.''   
   According to government officials, interstate and international transport of fighting birds posed the greatest risk of transmission, since cockfighters move their birds often and participants from as many as a dozen states gather at illegal fighting derbies. 
   Cockfighting also has been implicated in the deaths of at least 9 people in Asia who were reportedly exposed through cockfighting activity to bird flu. The National Chicken Council, which represents 95% of U.S. poultry producers/processors, has called on Congress to enact the animal fighting felony legislation, noting ``we are concerned that the nationwide traffic in game birds creates a continuing hazard for the dissemination of animal diseases.'' We can't afford not to act. The economic consequences of an avian influenza outbreak are staggering--with U.S. losses estimated at between $185 and $618 billion (Congressional Budget Office) and worldwide losses projected from $1.5 to $2 trillion (The World Bank). 
   8. H.R. 137 ENJOYS OVERWHELMING BIPARTISAN SUPPORT 
   H.R. 137 currently has more than 300 sponsors. More than 400 local and state law enforcement agencies covering every state in the country have endorsed this legislation, along with animal welfare, poultry industry, and other organizations. Enacting this animal fighting legislation is long overdue. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 137.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and I want to personally thank him for the extensive work we have done to secure America and as well to protect the civil liberties of all Americans. 
   I hold in my hand the Constitution of the United States embedded in this book. When you think of the term ``embedded,'' you think of the concerns regarding the Iraq war. You think of the concerns of terrorism. You might even think of the concerns of embedded press who have been able to travel with our soldiers. But in this instance, I am saying that deeply embedded in the hearts of Americans is a concept of the Constitution that protects their civil liberties.     
   I think it is important to note that in fact a bill has been passed so many months ago. And I will not argue about the integrity of this place, for many have raised that question, that we should have the privilege of reviewing the legislation of the Senate, and that privilege is necessary. 
   But I think there is a larger argument, more expanded argument, and it must be clarified that we have not dillydallied. We have not delayed. We have, in fact, been meticulous in making sure that we have balanced a new FISA law, updating it, and also providing that protection, that firewall for Americans. 
   How many of you would have known that initially the administration came to us and suggested that while they are surveilling someone on foreign soil, if it kicks back to an American, your grandmother, your aunt, your uncle, yourself, because it kicks back in a sense that we are talking to someone on foreign soil but you happen to be on the other side of the phone, that that was okay? 
   But I offered an amendment, and that amendment is in the bill that the House passed, that we cannot tolerate reverse targeting; you must get a warrant. There must be an intervention, and I am glad to say it is in the Senate bill. 
   Yet there is a major question that the Senate bill has not addressed, and it is the fact that many, many people's rights were violated in the course of the old law when the government went straight to the private sector and told them you have to do this and so many persons who were innocent were violated by surveillance. Now these companies, of which I have great respect, I believe they are part of the economic engine of this Nation, want us to interfere in the legal system, for many of these companies are now being sued retroactively, if you will, or being addressed for the grievance they did against an American citizen. 
   Who are we to stop the normal legal process? If one of these corporations has a defensible defense, the judges will rule for them. If they were following the law or they have a defense or were relying upon representations made by officials of the Federal Government, I can assure you that a court of law will give them their relief. Why are we interfering where citizens of the American society believe that this Constitution and their rights have been violated? 
   So to my friends who want to provide a scare tactic, let me say to you all this legislation does today is to ensure you will be safe by extending the existing law. Hopefully we put notice on corporations that they should not be violating the civil liberties of Americans, and clearly I will tell you, as a member of the Homeland Security Committee, that none of us stand in this well to jeopardize the safety and security of the American people. Let us dispense with that myth altogether. 
   What is important is that when we finally design a bill that is going to be entrenched in law, it must be in compliance with the Constitution that is embedded in this bill. It is not today. I ask my colleagues to enthusiastically vote for the extension because I believe in security and the rights of all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5349, to extend the Protect America Act of 2007 for 21 days. Let me be clear that while I do not support legislation that grants legal immunity to telecommunications companies that provide information to Federal investigators without a warrant, I recognize that the current legislation is set to expire this Saturday, February 16th. Although I do not support the Protect America Act, we need more time to work with our colleagues in the Senate on the substance of this legislation in order to ensure that we reconcile the Senate language with the RESTORE Act (H.R. 3773), which we passed in the House on November 15, 2007. 
   I would like to thank my Senate colleague Senator FEINGOLD, from Wisconsin, for his diligent work in trying to amend this legislation to protect American civil liberties, both at home and abroad. 
   Homeland security is not a Democratic or a Republican issue, it is not a House or Senate issue; it is an issue for all Americans--all of us. 
   The original legislation offered by the House Majority gave the Administration everything that they needed, but what the Senate is proposing virtually throws our Bill of Rights out the window, because they are telling Americans that no matter what your business is, you are subject to the unchecked scrutiny of the Attorney General without judicial intervention. 
   I am disheartened by the other body for their failure to recognize that we can secure America by passing responsible electronic surveillance legislation that does not compromise our civil liberties. 
   Madam Speaker, in August of this year, I strongly opposed S. 1927, the so-called ``Protect America Act'' (PAA) when it came to a vote on the House floor. Had the Bush administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the 2 preceding years, we would not have been in the position of debating legislation that had such a profoundly negative impact on the national security and on American values and civil liberties in 
   the crush of exigent circumstances. As that regrettable episode clearly showed, it is true as the saying goes that haste makes waste. 
   The PAA was stampeded through the Congress in the midnight hour of the last day before the long August recess on the dubious claim that it was necessary to fill a gap in the Nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell. But in reality it would have eviscerated the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution and represented an unwarranted transfer of power from the courts to the Executive Branch and a Justice Department led at that time by an Attorney General whose reputation for candor and integrity was, to put it charitably, subject to considerable doubt. 
   The RESTORE Act, H.R. 3773, is superior to the PAA by orders of magnitude. This is due in no small measure, Madam Speaker, to the willingness of the leadership to reach out to and work with all members of the House. The result shows. The RESTORE Act does not weaken our Nation's commitment to its democratic traditions. Rather, it represents a sound policy proposal for achieving the only legitimate goals of a terrorist surveillance program, which is to ensure that American citizens and persons in America are secure in their persons, papers, and effects, but terrorists throughout the world are made insecure. Let me direct the attention of all members to several of the more important aspects of this salutary legislation. 
   First, H.R. 3773 explicitly affirms that the exclusive law to follow with respect to authorizing foreign surveillance gathering on U.S. soil is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). As initially enacted by Congress in 1978, the exclusivity of FISA was undisputed and unambiguous. I hasten to add, however, that while FISA remains the exclusive source of law, H.R. 3773 recognizes that the law as enacted in 1978 can and should be adapted to modem circumstances and to accommodate new technologies. And it does so by making clear that foreign-to-foreign communications are not subject to the FISA, even though 
   modern technology enables that communication to be routed through the United States. 
   Second, under H.R. 3773, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) is indispensable and is accorded a meaningful role in ensuring compliance with the law. The bill ensures that the FISC is empowered to act as an Article III court should act, which means the court shall operate neither as a rubber-  stamp nor a bottleneck. Rather, the function of the court is to validate the lawful exercise of executive power on the one hand, and to act as the guardian of individual rights and liberties on the other. 
   Third, the bill does not grant amnesty to any telecommunications company or to any other entity or individual that helped federal intelligence agencies spy illegally on innocent Americans. I strongly support this provision because granting such blanket amnesty for past misconduct will have the unintended consequence of encouraging telecommunications companies to comply with, rather than contest, illegal requests to spy on Americans. The only permissible path to legalization of conduct in this area is full compliance with the requirements of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 
   Moreover, Madam Speaker, it is important to point out that the loudest demands for blanket immunity come not from the telecommunications companies but from the Administration, which raises the interesting question of whether the Administration's real motivation is to shield from public disclosure the ways and means by which government officials may have ``persuaded'' telecommunications companies to assist in its warrantless surveillance programs. I call my colleagues' attention to an article published in the Washington Post in which it is reported that Joseph Nacchio, the former CEO of Qwest, alleges that his company was denied NSA contracts after he declined in a February 27, 2001 meeting at Fort Meade with National Security Agency (NSA) representatives to give the NSA customer calling records. 
   Madam Speaker, the authorization to conduct foreign surveillance on U.S. soil provided by H.R. 3773 is temporary and will expire in 2 years if not renewed by the Congress. This is perhaps the single most important limitation on the authority conferred on the Executive Branch by this legislation. The good and sufficient reason for imposing this limitation is because the threats to America's security and the liberties of its people will change over time and thus require constant vigilance by the people's representatives in Congress. 
   To give a detailed illustration of just how superior the RESTORE Act is to the ill-considered and hastily enacted Protect America Act, I wish to take a few moments to discuss an important improvement in the bill that was adopted in the full Judiciary Committee markup. 
   The Jackson Lee amendment added during the markup made a constructive contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   ``Reverse targeting,'' a concept well known to members of this Committee but not so well understood by those less steeped in the arcana of electronic surveillance, is the practice where the government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with the PAA is that the understandable temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting may be difficult to resist in the absence of strong safeguards in the PAA to prevent it. 
   My amendment reduces even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the administration to obtain 
   a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieves this objective by requiring the Administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' The current language in the bill provides that a warrant be obtained only when the Government ``seeks to conduct electronic surveillance'' of a person reasonably believed to be located in the United States. 
   It was far from clear how the operative language ``seeks to'' is to be interpreted. In contrast, the language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that has long been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by the agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson Lee amendment provides a clearer, more objective, criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
   Let us be clear, Madam Speaker, that nothing in the bill or in my amendment requires the Government to obtain a FISA order for every overseas target on the off chance that they might pick up a call into or from the United States. Rather, the bill requires, as our amendment makes clear, a FISA order only where there is a particular, known person in the United States at the other end of the foreign target's calls in whom the Government has a significant interest such that a significant purpose of the surveillance has become to acquire that person's communications. 
   This will usually happen over time and the Government will have the time to get an order while continuing its surveillance. And it is the national security interest to require it to obtain an order at that point, so that it can lawfully acquire all of the target person's communications rather than continuing to listen to only some of them. 
   The Jackson Lee amendment gives the Government precisely what Director of National Intelligence McConnell asked for when he testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee:  
   It is very important to me; it is very important to members of this Committee. We should be required--we should be required in all cases to have a warrant anytime there is surveillance of a U.S. [sic] person located in the United States.  
   In short, the Jackson Lee amendment makes a good bill even better. For this reason alone, civil libertarians should enthusiastically embrace the RESTORE Act. 
   Nearly two centuries ago, Alexis de Tocqueville, who remains the most astute student of American democracy, observed that the reason democracies invariably prevail in any martial conflict is because democracy is the governmental form that best rewards and encourages those traits that are indispensable to martial success: initiative, innovation, resourcefulness, and courage. 
   As I wrote in the Politico, ``the best way to win the war on terror is to remain true to our democratic traditions. If it retains its democratic character, no nation and no loose confederation of international villains will defeat the United States in the pursuit of its vital interests.'' 
   Thus, the way forward to victory in the war on terror is for the United States country to redouble its commitment to the Bill of Rights and the democratic values which every American will risk his or her life to defend. It is only by preserving our attachment to these cherished values that America will remain forever the home of the free, the land of the brave, and the country we love. 
   I would ask my colleagues to support this 21-day extension so that we may work together as a body, Members of both the 
   House and the Senate to provide our citizens with the protections they so richly deserve. We need to have time to reconcile the differences between the House and the Senate in order to ensure that the important provisions of the RESTORE Act protecting the constitutional rights of Americans is preserved. I ask my colleagues to support the Bill of Rights and national security by supporting the 21-day extension in H.R. 5349. 
   Madam Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing, and I am far from persuaded that it needs to be jettisoned. 
   First, I was prepared to accept temporarily obviating the need to obtain a court order for foreign-to-foreign communications that pass through the United States. However, I continue to insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. This can be negotiated during this 21-day extension period. 
   The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a ``basket warrant'' without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. 
   In all candor, Madam Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still not enough on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this administration, to indicate that they require a blank check from Congress. 
   The Bush administration did not comply with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. 
   intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) Who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important, (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people.  
   Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Madam Speaker, the legislation before us is only necessary to give this body time to work with our colleagues in the Senate. The 21-day extension will give us time to impress upon the Senate, how important it is to protect the civil rights of all Americans. 
   I encourage my colleagues to join me in a vote of support of this 21-day extension. H.R. 5349 gives us time to amend the unwise and ill-considered reauthorization of the Protect America Act of 2007. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHANGE POLICY IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that all of us want what is best for the men and women on the front lines in Iraq. Certainly it is disturbing when we find that there is a confusion in the reporting of the incident that saw the loss of life of approximately four or five of our soldiers. First, it was represented that they died in a battle fighting against the insurgents and others; later to be determined that they had been kidnapped and shot in the head execution-style. 
   This, of course, speaks to the failed policy of this administration that our soldiers can declare victory and be returned home, but more importantly it certainly is a shame when we cannot tell parents and loved ones and others how their loved ones fell in battle. 
   Certainly it is a shame that we find that our young men and women on the front lines may be subject to capture and execution, like being shot in the streets in a most disgraceful manner. 
   We must fix the broken policies of Iraq. Redeploy our troops, engage our allies in the region, begin a political diplomatic solution, and stop falsifying reports to the American people, not knowing how their loved ones are being executed in the streets of Iraq. I ask for a new policy in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the committee for his leadership and kind words to the people of the gulf coast. Let me thank all of my colleagues who have offered to us their concern and certainly their support. I just landed, and I came from the view of a devastated community, an area in Galveston represented by my colleagues that has experienced the greatest devastation that they have seen in decades. Three million people are without power, many of them desperate because of their financial conditions. As everyone knows, particularly my friends from Louisiana, sometimes getting power back together takes a long time. 
   That is why this bill was important enough for me to come back, because it is a balance. As I left Houston, there were people crying out for diesel fuel, hospitals needing 700 gallons of fuel, and price gouging that law enforcement officers had to stop. People lined up at gas stations wherever they could find fuel, and those who could not find it were begging for fuel. So we know we have to do something about this calamity of energy and need. 
   I come from what has been called the oil capital of the world. I practiced oil and gas law. And as someone said on the other side of the aisle, there is no fear over here. Democrats want to balance what is best for America, and we have done so. 
   So there is a little bit of sacrifice that we are doing, but it is important to note that this bill brings relief to those suffering in the gulf and who need to find gasoline because in addition to many other aspects, it opens up leasing of 319 million acres; 85 million acres come from a State option.     
   That's a balance. But at the same time, this bill includes $18 billion in tax cuts to spur green jobs. And energy is all kinds of energy sources. And so, in addition to the oil, we have the opportunity to do more with green jobs. 
   We also allow a taking-out from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. If we could get this bill passed and signed, I could help the people in the Gulf region because it would come to hospitals, it would come to gasoline stations. It would come to people who are in need. 
   This is a bill that ends the current moratorium that allows drilling 3 miles off, but it allows drilling through a State option, 50 to 100 miles. 
   Let me just say this, Mr. Speaker. I have listened to a lot of Republicans. And interestingly enough, in the 2005 bill, they even said they are trying to move toward energy independence. This is what we do. 
   And I want to thank the chairman and Congressmen Green and Miller for allowing me to put language in this bill, and I'm proud of this language. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Beyond the fact of the expansion of the leases offshore and opt-in, it allows minority women and small businesses to have the opportunity to do something they've never done, bid for these offshore leases, and it creates an energy consortium of our universities to work with wind and solar. 
   I would like revenue sharing. I'm from the region. But we can't have everything. I hope to work on it, that we have these incentives that everybody is asking for. But now we have a balance, and the people in the Gulf region are crying out for resources and energy. And this bill, if it's gone to the Senate and it gets to the desk of the President, will help us do so. 
   This is a good bill. This is a bill that should be signed. This is a bill we're proud of. 
   And I want to thank my staff, Arthur Sidney.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. This legislation is a timely, necessary, and a comprehensive approach to addressing our energy crisis. 
   I am especially proud to support this bill because my staff, and I worked tirelessly to ensure that appropriate language was included to benefit all Americans--especially, small, minority, and women-owned businesses, institutions of higher learning, particularly minority serving institutions. I also worked hard so that the American consumers would benefit from paying lower gas prices at the pump. I am proud that such a progressive and comprehensive piece of legislation is on the floor of the House today. I thank Speaker NANCY PELOSI, Democratic Majority Leader STENY HOYER, and Representatives RAHALL, MILLER, and GREEN for their leadership in bringing today's important energy legislation to the floor that will address, in part, our current national energy crisis. I would also like to thank Mr. Arthur D. Sidney, my Legislative Director, for his work on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WAIVING REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady very much. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's important for the American people and my colleagues here to understand just what we are discussing. I am delighted that the gentlelady from Florida indicated, she used the word, the appropriate word, it is the economic emergency stimulus package. What we are doing right here is to insist that we are able to move that package forward as quickly as possible. 
   To my good friend from Oregon, I think it's important to note that we do care about rural schools. In fact, we had a bill by Peter DeFazio to fund those rural schools. Of course, it was not responded to warmly by our friends on the other side of the aisle. 
   But what we do have, as was indicated, $3 billion to green our schools. Whether they be rural or whether they be urban, that creates jobs much that  is the public-private partnership that this economic stimulus package addresses. 
   Now I stand here wearing several hats. One, my whole area now in the gulf region has been impacted by Hurricane Ike. Hurricane Gustav came through and a number of other hurricanes. 
   We need this emergency economic stimulus package. Let me tell you why, very briefly, and I think it's important for us to realize, whatever the government does, it has impact in the private sector. If we put $3.6 billion to purchase buses and equipment to the American people, it is the private sector that will provide that for us. This is an emergency economic engine. 
   As a chairperson of the Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee, I can tell you that airport improvement grants are crucial in determining major safety and security. That is the private sector that will be put to work. Now, some 84,000 Americans have lost their jobs. 
   It is important to have an extension of unemployment benefits to help these people restart their lives to pay their rent or mortgage. It is equally important to fund Amtrak and public housing, then, of course, to break down this thing called highway infrastructure, crumbling, that is, by its very nature, a partnership with the private sector. 
   Thousands upon jobs of contractors, of engineers, architects and designers will be working to put the Nation's crumbling infrastructure back to work, and fixing crumbling schools. I have 180 schools out because the power is down. That's an infrastructure issue that needs to be fixed and rebuilt. 
   What we are doing here is responding to the emergency needs of America. This is an economic stimulus package that is thoughtful, that is sound, and it addresses the concerns of the American people. 
   My people, or these people in the gulf region, are strong, they are resilient, they are rebuilding. But I must say to you this economic is something that we need. It is crucial that we begin to put America back together again. 
   I am supporting this legislation because it balances the needs of America, but, yet, yields to the concept of public and private partnership. It helps a broken system with Medicaid assistance because it recognizes that people who are unemployed cannot provide for themselves. 
   Pass this same-day rule and pass the stimulus package. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION TAX ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act of 2008. This legislation is a timely, necessary, and comprehensive approach to addressing our energy crisis. I support efforts to extend the expiring business tax provisions. Opponents of H.R. 6049 are concerned that the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to this bill would permanently increase taxes on businesses to pay for a temporary, one-year extension of expiring business tax provisions. I fail to see the merits of the opponent's contention and I believe that the benefits far outweigh any potential costs. Given the circumstances, the American economy is spiraling downward, energy prices are high, and unemployment is high, some kind of relief must be granted. To the extent that this body can grant some kind of relief, it is to be supported. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. I am committed to working with industry actors to make sure that some balance is struck in the future. 
   The following are provisions that are widely supported by various interest groups: 
   Extension of Expired and Expiring Business Tax Provisions--Legislation is urgently needed to extend critically important provisions. A number of provisions--such as the R&D credit, the election to deduct state and local general sales tax, and the railroad track maintenance credit--already have expired. Others--such as the exception under subpart F for active financing income and the look-through treatment of payments between related controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) under the foreign personal holding company rules--expire at the end of this year. 
   Clean Energy Tax Incentives--The extension of the clean energy tax incentives. These incentives will go a long way toward the development of the renewable and alternative energy technologies essential to America's energy future. The Chamber believes it is critical to promote the responsible use of all energy sources. To reach this goal, government and business should support investment in new technologies that expand alternative energy and enable traditional sources of energy to be used more cleanly and Cleanly and efficiently. 
   Some business interests have concerns with revenue offset provisions included in the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 6049, including those related to: 
   Punitive Oil and Gas Taxes--Business claim that Congress must be mindful of the crosswinds hitting the American economy from the financial sector to the housing sectors. Many believe tax increases on the oil and gas industries are out of sync with an American economy showing great demand for increased domestic energy production, which could provide the opportunity for the energy industry to add a significant number of high-wage jobs. Many are concerned with provisions that would freeze the section 199 deduction for oil and gas companies. This change would discourage energy investment, resulting in the loss of jobs, a decrease in the supply of oil and gas, and an increase in the costs for businesses that rely on oil and gas. 
   Many businesses interest groups are also concerned with the proposed modifications of the foreign tax credit rules for oil and gas companies, as this change would place domestic firms at a competitive disadvantage to foreign oil and gas manufacturers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNITED STATES-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION APPROVAL AND NONPROLIFERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman very much, and let me quickly thank him for the thoughtfulness on this legislation, and as well the ranking member, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. 
   I am a strong supporter of nuclear nonproliferation. I am a supporter of India. And I also believe in balancing the needs of India and our friend and ally against terrorism, Pakistan. But this is an important statement about our friendship with India, and I believe that this nuclear civil agreement is just that, 1.1 billion people who are attempting to invest and grow their economy. 
   The restrictions that we have are meaningful: no stockpiles; fuel supplies should match the nuclear reactor needs; no accumulation, as I said, of stockpiles; Congress having the right to disapprove by resolution any agreement that permits India to extract plutonium and uranium from U.S. fast reactor fuel. 
   It is important to note that this particular agreement is one that we should support. The Indian Government has put forward their best effort. They are our friend, and I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNITED STATES-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION APPROVAL AND NONPROLIFERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have reservations about the rapid way in which H.R. 7081, the United States-India Nuclear Cooperation Approval and Nonproliferation Enhancement Act, was brought to the House floor without consideration and amendment in the Foreign Affairs Committee of which I am a member. However, despite my concerns and my steadfast commitment to non-proliferation, I rise in support of this legislation and our Nation's important relationship with India. 
   The United States' relationship with India is of paramount importance to our nation's political and economic future. With the receding of the Cold War's global divisions and the new realities of globalization and trans-national terrorism, we have embarked on a new era of promise, possibility and uncertainty. This means the United States bears an especially heavy responsibility to remain engaged in all regions of the world, with all nation-states. It is in the national interest for the United States to continue our policy of engagement, collaboration, and exchange which has served the nation well in the past, particularly in the South Asia region. 
   This legislation approves the U.S.-India Agreement for Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation, notwithstanding the procedures in the Atomic Energy Act and the Hyde Act. It declares that the Bush Administration's past statements are authoritative interpretations of the agreement, but also reiterates the policy directives in the Hyde Act that the U.S. will seek to prevent other nations from nuclear trade with India if U.S. halts U.S. trade to India because of a nuclear test. Furthermore, the supply of U.S. fuel supply to India should match India's reactor needs, rather than a stockpile to weather an international fuel sanction should India resume nuclear testing. 
   Importantly, this legislation ensures Congress retains the ability to review and disapprove (via a joint resolution of disapproval enacted within 30 days) a subsequent agreement to permit India to extract plutonium and uranium from U.S.-origin spent reactor fuel. It re-establishes Congressional authority to legislatively reject (via a joint resolution of disapproval within 60 days) a Presidential decision to resume nuclear trade with any country that detonates a nuclear explosive device. It is also vital that this legislation requires the President to certify that the India Agreement is consistent with U.S. NPT commitment not to assist in any way in the acquisition of nuclear weapons. 
   Mr. Speaker, I visited India and met with India's Prime Minister in July of this year where we discussed how our two Nation's continue to collaborate economically, politically, and technologically. In this Nation and in my city of Houston, we have a large and vibrant Indian-American community which makes significant contributions to the vitality of our democracy. I am confident that we can work with India so that they can meet their energy needs through nuclear technology. Accordingly, that is why it is important that this legislation urges India to sign and implement an IAEA Additional Protocol for Safeguards, as India has committed to do. It also restricts issuance of U.S. export licenses under the Agreement (which has entered into force) until India completes the process of bringing its Safeguards Agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) into force. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation also requires the Administration to keep the Congress fully and completely informed regarding new initiatives for civil nuclear cooperation agreements. It requires additional reporting requirements for an Annual Report to Congress on implementation of the Agreement required by the Hyde Act. It also requires a Presidential certification that it is U.S. policy to seek greater restrictions on transfer or uranium enrichment or plutonium reprocessing equipment technology at the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) or with NSG governments before entry-into-force of the India Agreement. Finally, this legislation declares that the India Agreement does not supersede the Atomic Energy Act or Hyde Act. 
   Peaceful nuclear cooperation with India can serve multiple U.S. foreign policy objectives so long as it is undertaken in a manner that minimizes potential risks to the nonproliferation regime. This will be best achieved by sustained and active engagement and cooperation between the India and the United States. 
   This landmark legislation serves both our strategic interests and our long-standing nonproliferation objectives. We should heed the sage words of the Iraq Study Group which recommends engaging rather than abandoning the possibilities dialogue offers. Our engagement and subsequent abandonment of Iran has resulted in their current pursuit of nuclear technology. We should not make the same mistake in South Asia. We need to remain engaged with India and Pakistan so that they remain our most important allies rather than our adversaries. 
   We are on the path to fostering an enduring relationship of mutually beneficial cooperation with India. The new realities of globalization and interdependence have brought a convergence of interests between the world's largest democracy and the world's most powerful one. I accompanied President Clinton in his groundbreaking trip to India marking a new phase in the bonds that bind our two countries. This legislation builds on this relationship  by permitting an invigorated relationship in the field of nuclear cooperation, an area of critical importance given India's increasing energy demands. 
   I am hopeful that the nonproliferation measures in this legislation anchor India in the international nonproliferation framework by including: safeguards between India and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA); end use monitoring of U.S. exports to India; and strengthening the Nuclear Suppliers Group, which are the group of countries that restrict nuclear proliferation throughout the world. 
   In addition, this legislation maintains Congressional oversight over the ongoing relationship of nuclear cooperation between the U.S. and India. We must continue to enhance our nonproliferation policy and bolster our argument that the rest of the world should agree to this robust inspection regime. 
   In conclusion, I support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 980, which is designed to provide police officers, firefighters and other public safety I officers with basic collective bargaining rights, without undermining State authority or existing State laws. I would first like to commend our distinguished colleague, Mr. Kildee of Michigan, for introducing this important resolution. In light of the post-9/11 era of protecting America from terrorism, in which we are asking our police officers, firefighters, and other public safety officers, to take on more--and more dangerous--responsibilities than they had before, the least we can do is ensure they enjoy the basic right to bargain for better wages and benefits. 
   State and local public safety officers play an essential role in the efforts of the United States to detect, prevent, and respond to terrorist attacks, and to respond to natural disasters, hazardous materials, and other mass casualty incidents. As the first to arrive on scene, State and local public safety officers must be prepared to protect life and property and to preserve scarce and vital Federal resources, avoid substantial and debilitating interference with interstate and foreign commerce, and to protect the national security of the United States. Public safety employer-employee cooperation is essential in meeting these needs and is, therefore, in the Nation's best interest. 
   Public safety agencies benefit from constructive relationships with their public safety officers. In fact, local communities also benefit by a more efficient delivery of safety and emergency services. This type of cooperation is promoted by providing public safety employees with the fundamental right to bargain with their 
   employers. Public safety officers deserve the same right to discuss workplace issues with their employer that the Federal Government already grants to most other employees.  
   The Federal Government needs to encourage conciliation, mediation, and voluntary arbitration to aid and encourage employers and the representatives of their employees to reach and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, hours, and working conditions; and to make all reasonable efforts through negotiation to settle differences by mutual agreement reached through collective bargaining or by such methods as may be provided for in any applicable agreement for the settlement of disputes. 
   Mr. Speaker, public sector membership gains are important because they demonstrate workers' willingness and ability to organize under conditions of relative management neutrality and non-interference. If the National Labor Relations Act had covered public safety officers 30 years ago--when health care and nonprofit entities were finally covered--it is likely that public sector unionization in the U.S. today would be at least 80 percent, strikingly similar to Canada, Europe, South Africa, Korea, Japan and every other democracy. Instead, the existence or scope of collective bargaining in half the States is still being determined by State legislators or Governors, who favor either no bargaining at all or limited ``meet and discuss'' arrangements. 
   If collective bargaining in public employment is indeed a public good, we need to focus more on explaining and defending that process, rather than just highlighting the obstacles that individual unions face while trying to boost their own membership. For example, in France, unions count only 10 percent of the workforce as dues-payers but unions negotiate in nearly all industrial sectors based on longstanding support for collective bargaining. Unions actively compete against each other--both for membership and votes for government-mandated workplace committee members open to all workers in the same workplace or firm. But the country's various labor federations then find ways to engage in common contract campaigns with management or the government; as a result, nearly 90 percent of French workers have collective bargaining agreements. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bill is very balanced. Given the unique responsibilities of the public safety community, the bill specifically outlaws strikes by firefighters, police officers, and other public safety personnel. The bill also does not interfere with State right-to-work laws; preserves the rights of volunteer firefighters; protects all existing certifications, recognitions, elections and collective bargaining agreements; and exempts all States with a State collective bargaining law for public safety officers equal to or greater than the bill's basic minimum standards. 
   Promoting collective bargaining is even more critical today, because the Nation is in much worse shape than half a century ago. What is the likelihood that we can address America's safety crisis, the collapse of retirement security, the threat of outsourcing, workplace safety and health hazards, or the growing income inequality without far more workers winning the right to bargain? We know the answer, and it is H.R. 980. For these reasons I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 1, IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairman of the full committee, and to the Speaker, my good friend from Tennessee, we are here on this floor for a very serious deliberation. 
   Over the last 10 days we have heard a number of responses from the administration; and I have often said that if and when, if and when there was a turn of events that would generate a horrific and terrorist act against this Nation, it is the Members of the United States Congress and committees with names like Homeland Security and Defense that would have to be called to the carpet. 
   None of us, none of us, Mr. Speaker, have any desire to be on the list of those who are derelict in their duties. In fact, Chairman Thompson has been enormously zealous in constant oversight of the Department of Homeland Security, constant briefings, and I am reminded of one that occurred in the last 10 days where the term ``gut feeling'' was introduced to us. Out of that particular briefing, many of us tightened our belts and began to reflect on the oversight hearings and the legislative initiatives that will respond and have responded to that gut reaction. So the dilemma, or the discussion today, as we bring up the 9/11 bill, may I remind my colleagues, is about terrorism. It is about the thought and the fear that Americans have of who lives amongst us. 
   The TWIC card, as Transportation Security Administration is about to issue forward with regulations, is one of the elements to define who is in this country that would want to do us harm. Let me say this again, Mr. Speaker. It is a card to define who wants to harm us. 
   As the chairwoman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, Critical Infrastructure, we live every day with those individuals who are receiving identification, those at airports. We have done oversight about employees' ingress and egress, about the back side of the airport. We are well aware, my colleague Representative SANCHEZ, LORETTA SANCHEZ and her committee, well aware of the massiveness of the Nation's ports. We could give you a list of times that we have been to look at the intimacies of the port. But what my good friend is speaking about clearly has no direct relationship to ensuring America's security and releasing or eliminating the fear that Americans have about the next-door terrorist cell. This amendment, this motion to instruct is not constructive. For what it says is that age-long workers, union workers who through an early lifetime had the ups and downs of a criminal record, have now been cast as terrorists. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am not interested in opening the doors to criminal elements. I don't disrespect the fact that we are concerned about murderers and others who have done dastardly deeds. But what you are talking about is taking an age-old seasoned port worker, union member, and eliminate their livelihood by projecting onto them the question of whether or not they are in line to perpetrate a terrorist act. 
   The TWIC card is an identification document to ensure that those who are in possession of that card have no connection to any elements of terrorism. It is to safeguard the American public.  It is not, it is not, if you will, the sledgehammer on hardworking, taxpaying Americans. And let me be very clear: The TWIC card is no wimp. There is a serious review process that goes forward that takes into account everyone's record and includes any elements that would lead us to believe that this person might perpetrate a terrorist act. 
   I respect the gentlelady from Tennessee because I know that she is, as we all are, warriors against terrorism, and this Congress has to be united on this factor. I would raise the question, however, as to whether or not these modifications of a TWIC card that has already been vetted directed only at eliminating, firing, and terminating lifelong employees with strong records that have shown no inclination and no past history to terrorist acts is the appropriate direction to take. 
   I hope that we can join in this body, as Chairman Thompson has encouraged us as members of his committee, to focus in a bipartisan way on solutions to major problems: Critical infrastructure, nuclear and biological possibilities, the reconstruction of FEMA, the interests in protecting our ports and borders north and south. This is how, an intelligence response that shows who is here as it relates to terrorist cells and who is here to do damage. These are the key elements, along with the 9/11 bill, that lay down the underpinnings, the framework of the survival of this Nation. Let us not fall upon divisiveness in the redesign of a card that has been fully vetted in its structure, that will do what it is intended to do, which is to weed out the terrorists and to allow hardworking Americans to continue to work and provide for their families. They, too, are patriots. And we as patriots and lovers of this country must stand united together in doing the right thing to secure America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 1, IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman. To my good friend from Tennessee, let us be very clear that homeland security is a bipartisan issue. 
   What the chairman has indicated is that we are yielding to the Secretary of Homeland Security for a slight opportunity to be able to modify, if you will, in his reasoned judgment, that deals with securing America. We are not ignoring sedition and treason. I want my colleagues to know that. 
   But the individuals that will now be subjected to the TWIC card, which costs 137 dollars and 700,000 people will be processed the first year, and 1.5 million persons the second year, these are our neighbors, individuals who have been working in this capacity who have nothing in their background that would suggest that they are terrorists. 
   The gentlelady's motion would literally shut down America's ports. Commerce would come to a standstill. As my good friend from Ohio has said, people rehabilitate. Give the Secretary the opportunity to use his judgment and to use his discretion to be able to secure America on the real causes of sedition and treason. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the Chair and also thank the Chair of the subcommittee and the ranking member of the subcommittee, and let me just for a moment thank them overall for this bill and mention the $3.3 billion in increased student aid; the $1.3 billion for Health Resources and Services Administration, the primary agency dealing with health care access; the $1 billion for medical research, which includes more research for cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's; $880 million for low-income home energy; $949 million for employment and training services; and $660 million for the community services block grant. I wanted to acknowledge the direction of this bill and my support for it. But let me also acknowledge that there is more work to be done in the Department of Education Office of Civil Rights. 
   As I read from the report language, it indicates that this office is responsible for enforcing laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, and age in all programs and institutions that receive funds from the Department. These laws extend to the 50 State educational agencies and 16,000 local educational agencies as well, 3,500 institutions of higher learning. And that is my concern. 
   This amendment reduces the amount of money in the area of the administration aspect of the Department of Education, which includes the Office of Civil Rights, to focus on glaring problems that exist in that program. For example, if you look at fiscal year 2005, only 18 percent of the cases that this agency dealt with was in regard to race and national origin. As relates to minorities in special education, 10 cases were initiated, 19 were resolved. 
   In 2000, the Clinton administration settled a number of OCR cases, Office of Civil Rights cases, segregation cases with Historically Black Colleges. Those cases included schools in Virginia, schools in Texas, schools in Georgia, and a number of others. These particular settlements required compliance, and that means that the Office of Civil Rights was responsible for enforcing the compliance of these agreements by the States that these schools were located in. Sadly, we have found that several schools have suffered from the lack of enforcement of the Department of Education: Texas Southern University in Texas, Morgan State in Maryland, and Florida A&M in Florida. 
   Without the enforcement of the Office of Civil Rights, the States don't comply with requirements to end discrimination on these historically black colleges. My amendment reinforces the importance of the Office of Civil Rights continuing to enforce strongly the agreements that were made pursuant to segregation or desegregation settlements at the beginning of 2000. I would hope that recognizing the value of education, the value of the 104 Historically Black Colleges, that the Office of Civil Rights would step up their enforcement on the issues dealing with race. 
   Let me indicate that this is not a question of borrowing from Peter to pay Paul. I do not want to diminish enforcement on issues of disability, age discrimination, on sex discrimination, but I do want to see the increase of enforcement on issues dealing with race where it is necessary. 
   Unfortunately, in my own State, the Governor of the State was willing to put our Historically Black College in conservatorship even though he recognized that that would eliminate the accreditation of that school. That required an enforcement by the Department of Education and the Office of Civil Rights. They were completely missing in their enforcement responsibilities in that instance. 
   So, Madam Chairman, it is a simple amendment that reinforces the importance of enforcement in the Office of  Civil Rights, broad based and needed, and I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   Thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of my amendment to H.R. 3043, Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2008, and to commend Mr. Obey for his leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. Among other agencies, this legislation funds the Office of Civil Rights, which ensures equal access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the Nation through vigorous enforcement of civil rights. 
   Madam Chairman, my amendment is simple but it sends a very important message from the Congress of the United States. My amendment emphasizes the decrease in funding by $2,000,000 and an increase in funding by $2,000,000 to better assist the Office in their support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. 
   Historically Black Colleges and Universities, frequently known as HBCUs are institutions of higher learning that were established before 1964 with the intention of serving the African American community. Oftentimes people talk about HBCUs as if they were all the same, but nothing could be further from the truth. There are more than 100 HBCUs in the United States, and they come in all types and sizes. HBCUs can be public or private, and come in both the two-year and 4-year variety. Some are large, and some are small. HBCUs are located in 20 States, Washington, DC, the Virgin Islands, and in my great city, Houston, TX. 
   Madam Chairman, one of Texas's great treasures, Texas Southern University (TSU), and like many other HBCUs need our assistance in continuing their legacies in providing superior educational opportunities to deserving young men and women. That mission cannot be accomplished if Congress does not take the appropriate action of validating my amendment into this bill. I am strongly opposed to any action or non-action that would prevent or restrict opportunities to people to gain knowledge away from these educational institutions. HBCUs pride themselves on educating American minorities, especially since there was a time in our Nation's history when people of minority status were withheld from their humane right to education. 
   Madam Chairman, you may not be aware that there is a serious stigma associated with HBCUs in this Nation. Many stereotypes convey that HBCUs don't prepare students for the real world, or HBCUs have too many financial problems, and even non-HBCUs offer better quality of education. Many States are considering appointing a Conservator, an individual similar to a trustee in a bankruptcy case; the Conservator's duty would be to oversee the governance of the HBCUs in each particular State. This move would be unprecedented, never in the history of this Nation has an HBCU been placed on Conservatorship. This move is essentially a death 
   sentence for all HBCUs. It would further validate the stereotypical stigmas attached to HBCUs around this country. 
   Madam Chairman, I can tell you first hand that my very own state, Texas, is considering a Conservatorship program for its HBCU, Texas Southern University. This action does not befit the distinguished history of TSU, which includes notable alumni such as two former Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Barbara Jordan and George ``Mickey'' Leland, and will exacerbate rather than overcome the challenges facing TSU by demoralizing the faculty, alumni, and student body. 
   Madam, Chairman, Congress must act to bring restoration back to the HBCU community. Right now as it stands, HBCUs are underfunded and are resource deprived. Many students are unable to access the proper books, supplies and current technology needed to obtain a quality education comparable to predominately white, wealthier institutions. The lack of educational resources will disproportionately affect the type of education students receive attending HBCUs. As a direct result many HBCUs' graduates are unable to compete effectively with the non-HBCU graduates in the workplace; contributing to the ever present socio-economic disaster in America today. 
   Many of the HBCUs living arrangements for their students lack in comparison to predominately white institutions. HBCUs' dormitories have several maintenance problems, insect infestations, and minimum house upkeep. This type of atmosphere is hardly conducive to the learning environment that students need to excel in their school work. 
   For all these reasons, Madam Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment and thank Mr. Obey for his courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in putting together this excellent legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, as I indicated, I support this underlying bill and thank the chairman and ranking member for the work that they have done. 
   All of us are concerned as we move forward with educating our children, particularly in the primary and secondary school. As I work with teachers and students and families regarding public school education, one of the great concerns has been the fallout of the Leave No Child Behind. I realize that going forward we will be looking at a reform of that legislation, but I thought it was important in the reduction and increase in funding in areas dealing with disadvantaged children, disadvantaged education opportunities to emphasize the importance of providing teaching, teaching and student relationships, over testing. 
   Let me cite for you the dropout rates in the Hispanic and African American communities' percent of all dropouts.     
   Black and non-Hispanic, 27.2 percent, and the population is only 14 percent. Hispanic, 20.8 percent dropout, and the population is 15.8 percent. Much of that dropout came as a result of standardized testing when the students did not pass and, therefore, did not return back to high school. 
   My amendment is simple. What it offers is an emphasis on teaching children, disadvantaged children, teaching more than testing, relating to the teacher-student relationship and providing teacher-based tests. 
   Might I offer just a brief comment that indicates Texas Parents, Teachers Unhappy with Standardized Testing. What we need is a comprehensive approach to stop the high dropout rate, as this particular legislation has had. But, more importantly, to evaluate the idea of testing as opposed to teaching. 
   I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment to emphasize the importance of thwarting the high dropout rate among Hispanics and African Americans and to emphasize the importance of teaching disadvantaged children so that they remain in school and to develop tests by teachers that will be more related to the subject that the student is learning. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   Let me first thank my distinguished colleague Chairman OBEY for his extraordinary leadership and guidance in crafting this bill. 
   H.R. 3043 will play a crucial role in addressing and perhaps providing a cure for the many educational ills among this nation's poorest and most disadvantaged children. I fully support the spirit of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) but I question its effectiveness in leaving no child behind. 
   Madam Chairman, leaving no child left behind starts with ensuring that all students have adequate resources to meet their particular circumstances. That is why I offer my amendment which provides: The amount otherwise provided in this Act for ``Department of Education--Title I for the Education of the Disadvantaged for ``carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (``ESEA'') (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.)'' is hereby decreased by $2,000,000 and increased by $2,000,000. The purpose of my amendment, which decreases and then increases the funding in Title I for the Education of the Disadvantaged, is to address the special problems and challenges to disadvantaged communities and children posed by the No Child Left Behind Act. 
   Madam Chairman, NCLB established goals everyone supports: high standards and accountability for the learning of all children. But NCLB is falling short of its goals for many reasons. Let's examine the purpose of NCLB which includes the following: 
   To improve teacher and principal quality through research supported innovation in teacher and principal preparation programs; 
   To increase the number of highly qualified teachers in the classroom and highly qualified principals and assistant principals in schools; and 
   To foster an environment of collaboration among Pre-kindergarten through 12 school districts and universities and their units that prepare teachers and school administrators. 
   Madam Chairman, regardless of the purpose of the bill, the reality is that a rigid one-size-fits-all approach to accountability does not work. Improving student learning is of vital importance, and we must be fully committed to creating great public schools with high academic standards for all students. Every child should be learning and succeeding in school, but the record reflects that many minority and disadvantaged students are struggling, and the reasons are as diverse and complex as the students themselves. 
   Madam Chairman, all across this great nation the high school dropout rates of disadvantaged and underserved students are steadily increasing. Moreover, many school administrators are under-representing the number of high school dropouts. In my home state of Texas nearly it has been reported that 119,400 students fail to graduate with their peers each year. African-Americans and Hispanics suffer disproportionately. The rate of graduation for African-American students is 62 percent and 58 percent for Hispanics; while the rates of graduation for Asian and White students are 87 percent and 76 percent, respectively. This dismal reality not only cost individual students the opportunity to reach their goals, but also cost individual states and the entire country in a number of ways: 
   Dropouts from the class of 2006 cost the state more than $31 billion in lost wages, taxes, and productivity over their lifetimes. 
   If Texas's likely dropouts from the class of 2006 graduated instead, the state could save more than $1.6 billion in Medicaid and expenditures for uninsured care over the course of those young people's lifetimes. 
   If Texas's high schools and colleges raise the graduation rates of Hispanic, African-American, and Native-American students to the levels of 
   white students by 2020, the potential increase in personal income would add more than $46.5 billion to the state economy. 
   Increasing the graduation rate and college matriculation of male students in Texas by only 5 percent could lead to combined savings and revenue of almost $691 million each year by reducing crime-related costs. 
   Madam Chairman, we can reduce these costs exponentially by closing the achievement gaps between underserved students and those who are well served. Closing student achievement gaps is one of the most pressing challenges facing public education. Educators, with the support of the community, must reach all students--students from multiple ethnic, racial, language, and economic backgrounds; students of both genders; and students of comparable ability who are not currently achieving at equal academic levels. 
   Madam Chairman, student accountability is very important; however, if we are to hold all students to the same high standards, we must provide all students with the same level of opportunity to reach those high standards. In particular among minority and underserved communities, it is clear that providing children a quality education will take more than just imposing rigorous testing standards and stringent teacher evaluations. Indeed, it will take a village including school staff, parents, business and community leaders, legislators, and other education groups to fulfill our responsibility of helping a diverse array of students meet high standards. We all know that not all students are situated equally financially, socially or emotionally. Many students are severely limited in their level of academic achievement by virtue of their low-income and impoverished financial status. 
   Madam Chairman, minority students also have cultural and language limitations. It is extremely crucial to remember that improving educational achievements within minority and underserved communities requires the need to address culture, language, and economic differences within the educational curriculum. Helping learners make the link between their culture and the new knowledge and skills they encounter inside school is at the heart of ensuring that all students achieve at high levels. In addition, appreciation of diverse cultures is a philosophical concept built on the American ideals of freedom, justice, equality, equity, and human dignity. 
   We have the opportunity to truly make a difference in student achievement among all our children and leave absolutely no child behind if we provide: free, universal preschool; smaller class sizes; a qualified and caring teacher in every classroom; a challenging curriculum; ample resources for all public schools, including those that serve poor and minority students; involved parents. 
   We can achieve this through my amendment. I strongly urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment which will give the disadvantaged students in this country the chance to perform at the highest peak of their educational potentials.  
 TABLE 1.--EVENT DROPOUT RATES AND NUMBER AND DISTRIBUTION OF 15- THROUGH 24-YEAR-OLDS WHO DROPPED OUT OF GRADES 10-12, BY SELECTED BACKGROUND CHARACTERISTICS: OCTOBER 2005 Characteristic  Event dropout rate(percent)  Number of event dropouts(thousands)  Population enrolled(thousands)  Percent of all dropouts  Percent of population enrolled   Total   3.8   414   10,870   100.0   100.0     Sex     Male   4.2   233   5,515   56.3   50.7     Female   3.4   181   5,355   43.7   49.3     Race/ethnicity     White, non-Hispanic   2.8   196   6,897   47.3   63.5     Black, non-Hispanic   7.3   112   1,538   27.2   14.1     Hispanic   5.0   86   1,717   20.8   15.8     Asian/Pacific Islander, non-Hispanic   1.6   6   411   1.5   3.8     More than one race   4.9   12   241   2.9   2.2     Family income     Low income   8.9   137   1,544   33.1   14.2     Middle income   3.8   228   5,990   55.2   55.1     High income   1.5   49   3,326   11.7   30.6     Age     15-16   2.1   72   3,347   17.4   30.8     17   2.4   93   3,797   22.5   34.9     18   3.9   105   2,693   25.3   24.8     19   9.1   64   702   15.4   6.5     20-24   24.4   81   331   19.5   3.0     Recency of immigration     Born outside the 50 states and District of Columbia     Hispanic   5.9   25   418   6.0   3.8     Non-Hispanic   5.0   22   440   5.3   4.0     First generation     Hispanic   5.5   40   738   9.8   6.8     Non-Hispanic   1.2   9   759   2.2   7.0     Second generation or higher     Hispanic   3.7   21   562   5.0   5.2     Non-Hispanic   3.7   297   7,954   71.8   73.2     Region     Northeast   3.8   79   2,074   19.1   19.1     Midwest   3.1   80   2,570   19.4   23.6     South   4.4   165   3,754   39,9   34.5     West   3.6   90   2,472   21.7   22.7   
   Texas Parents, Teachers Unhappy With Standardized Testing 
   GEORGETOWN.--Parents and educators told school trustees they think the state's standardized achievement tests place too much stress on children and limit what they learn. 
   Speakers complained about the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills and the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills at a forum held Tuesday by the school board to hear from the public on topics that included elementary grade alignment and teachers salaries. 
   The TAAS, and the TAKS--which replaces the TAAS in the spring, measure students skills in core subjects. The Texas Education Agency uses exam scores to rate districts and campuses. . . .  
   Madam Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING THE WINGS OVER HOUSTON AIRSHOW -- (House of Representatives - October 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 691,  commending the Wings Over Houston Airshow for its great contribution to the appreciation, understanding, and future of the United States Armed Forces, the city of Houston, TX, and Ellington Field, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor. I would like to thank my good friend and colleague, Congressman Lampson, for introducing this legislation, and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Congressman Skelton, for his leadership on this important issue. 
   The 23rd annual Wings Over Houston Airshow will take place on October 6 and 7, 2007, at Ellington Field, Houston, TX. This year's event will feature an array of modern civilian aerobatic and state-of-the-art military hardware, including the Canadian Forces Snowbirds, as well as historic planes such as a Lockheed P-38 buried under ice in Greenland in 1942 and only recovered 50 years later. Also performing will be the all-volunteer Gulf Coast Wing and West Houston Squadron of the Commemorative Air Force, which has performed for the last 23 years at the airshow. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Wings Over Houston Airshow has been rated as one of the top events of its kind. Over 70,000 people, both from the local community in southeast Texas and from all over the Nation, gather every year at this event, where they have the opportunity to see the United States Air Force, Navy, Marines, and Coast Guard perform, as well as to meet service members of the past and present. The Wings Over Houston Airshow has helped to increase awareness and appreciation for the United States Armed Forces and its active duty members and veterans. 
   The Wings Over Houston Airshow also serves to promote an understanding and appreciation of military history. The airshow's many events include the reenactment of battles and the acquisition, restoration, and display of vintage aircraft. Among these historical reenactments is Tora!Tora!Tora!, an explosive recreation of the air attack on Pearl Harbor. Viewers of all ages will have the opportunity to view this exciting spectacle, while also learning about military and aviation history. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Wings Over Houston Airshow plays an important role in both local and national communities. The airshow benefits local and national charities, including the Wings Over Houston Airshow Scholarship Program, the Texas Southern 
   University Aviation Career Academy, the Exchange Club of Sugar Land, and the Commemorative Air Force aircraft restoration and flying historical programs. 
   The Wings Over Houston Scholarship Program is particularly important. This scholarship program promotes math and science education by helping students from southeast Texas pursue college educations in the fields of aviation and aerospace. Scholarships are awarded to students residing in Harris County, or a contiguous county, who have demonstrated academic potential, leadership, and extracurricular involvement, with preference giving to those pursuing an academic degree directly associated with aviation or aerospace. For 2007, a total of $10,000 in scholarships was awarded, and I would like to congratulate the four recipients: Robert Tristan Reeves, David Gehris, Kristen John, and Donovan Johnson. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Wings Over Houston Airshow is made possible by the collaboration of a number of Houston area organizations. I would like to extend my thanks to the airshow's partners, which include the Lone Star Flight Museum, the Houston Airport System, the Clear Lake Area Chamber of Commerce, the Bay Area Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau, the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau, Destination League City, and the cities of Houston, Kemah, Nassau Bay, Seabrook, and Webster. Together, the Wings Over Houston Airshow and its generous partners have contributed to the economy and growth of southeast Texas. 
   Mr. Speaker, the 110th Congress has made the promotion of math and science education for all our Nation's children a legislative priority. Exciting and exhilarating events like the Wings Over Houston Airshow are an opportunity for children of all ages to engage with science, to hear heroic stories that helped shape America's rich aviation history, to get excited about the world of aviation, to meet and interact with members of our Nation's military, and to dream about their own futures. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS REPORT ON THE ANNUAL LEGISLATIVE CONFERENCE -- (House of Representatives - October 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me thank my distinguished colleague and friend, chairwoman of the Ethics Committee from Ohio Stephanie Tubbs Jones, for more than this one night. I think that we are back in the saddle again, and I applaud the fact that the Congressional Black Caucus, the conscience of the Congress, is now reporting the ions and pages and, if you will, thousands upon thousands of items that we work on and solve on a daily basis here in the United States Congress. So I want to thank her for guiding this for a period of time, and I want to then acknowledge the chairpersons of the 37th Annual Legislative Conference, the Honorable Donna Christensen and G.K. Butterfield, who did an outstanding job. And as well might I acknowledge and thank, and I know that he will be speaking soon, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Chairman Kendrick Meek, and thank him for his leadership and also for the opportunity to now journey on the foundation board as a new member. As I am a new member of the foundation board, I am delighted to be able to collaborate with him on some of the many, many issues that the board will tackle. 
   Success; inspirational; exciting; fun; learned; and, of course, message giving. That was the 37th annual legislative session that we just finished here in Washington, D.C. 
   Allow me to acknowledge the importance of the Voting Rights session that Mel Watt and I, having served on the Judiciary Committee, worked on as we moved to reauthorize the Voting Rights legislation in the last session. 
   And just to bring to the attention of my colleagues, the reason why that is so important is because it seems that race again is becoming a dividing issue in America. And I just want to remind my colleagues, or maybe bring it to your attention, I am going to sort of merge it into the review of the particular sessions that I had, but I just want to announce to my colleagues that Ward Connelly has managed to get the question of affirmative action on the ballot of nine States. My understanding is that that question which revolves around race will be on the Presidential-year elections. It is my understanding that it will be on the ballot in November of 2008. I am going to investigate that issue, but I wanted to just bring that to the table because a number of our sessions had to do with trying to grapple with this question of race. And certainly the Voting Rights Act and the interpretations that the Supreme Court will make on additional cases involving race really emphasize that. 
   And I must say that I enjoyed co-hosting a series of sessions with Bobby Scott. There was a session that, although I was detained, I was able to get in for a brief moment, but I want to compliment him and acknowledge that one of the aspects that was spoken about was the recent decision dealing with race in schools on the Supreme Court. So you can imagine if there are ballot issues dealing with affirmative action, it just converges on a number of these issues. And that session really emphasized the wrongness of the decision as it relates to the results, meaning that Brown versus Board of Education might be challenged under that decision. Something for us to be concerned about. 
   So I enjoyed participating in that one and thought it was a very important, instructive session, as well as cochairing the child welfare section with Danny Davis. And the one point I want to mention that came out of that that really cries out for legislation is the fact that foster children age out of protection, age out of a home at age 18. And for those of us who have children that know that we are still mothering them at 21, 22, 23, 24, and they have a home, our children can come back to a home or have a roof over their head that we may have, but foster children get out of the system. There is no obligation to provide them with housing or schooling or anything. What a tragedy, which is why you see that many foster children are homeless, many foster children can't finish college. They get no stipend, and it is a crisis. And it was an outstanding series with Historically Black Colleges. 
   Let me then indicate that the series that I had involved the energy brain trust, which was historic. And let me quickly say that we had representatives from Shell and CAMAC energy and the CEO of CITGO; from Venezuela, the Venezuelan ambassador; the ambassador from Algeria; Milton Scott, who owns a very important African American energy company; Steve Hightower, African American, owner of an energy company; George Person; Lisa Jackson; Gary Heminger; Hugh Depland from BP; Gary from Marathon; Frank Stewart from the American Association of Blacks in Energy; Willie Trotty. And the key element, high gasoline prices and high utility costs, building bridges. We have a commitment to convene the energy brain trust at the OTC, the Offshore Technology Conference, in Houston, but the main thing we have a commitment to is getting African Americans in the ownership wealth part of energy and making sure that there are African Americans in the corporate aspects of these major Fortune 500 companies and, as well, increasing more ownership.     
   Lastly, we did a provocative session on hip hop, ``The Culture of a People, the Language of a People,'' and it actually got people talking. Julianne Malveaux, the president of Bennett College. Azim Rashid, senior VP of operations at Warner Music. J. Xavier, 350-time performer, 15-year-old clean hip hop artist. An Tun Muhammad, the president of The Real Hip Hop Network. Asha Jenning, Igniting Media Accountability. Madhatter of the Box Station in Houston, and JMAC. And then Reverend Ben Chavis and Charles LeBoef. 
   Let me conclude by saying that we opened up the door of communication to understand hip hop from both perspectives in art, but also accountability. I look forward to continuing those sessions.  
   But more importantly let me thank the convener, because we were able to say it was vital, it was important, and there was so much learning going on. Now we're going forward with the legislative initiative for the CBC legislative weekend. 
   I yield back to the distinguished gentlelady. Thank you for the time.  
   The issue of energy is one of the most important national security issues which face our nation due to our increasing dependence on foreign sources of energy, often times from volatile parts of the world. My braintrust seeks to highlight and remedy the lack of adequate outreach to and participation by the African American community in America's energy industry, which is exacerbated by the inherent barriers present in the energy industry to African American students, workers, entrepreneurs, and investors along with the disparate impact the energy industry has on minority populations, consumers and neighborhoods, both in terms of prices and environmental justice. 
   There is no issue more integral to our nation's economic and national security than energy independence. This Energy Braintrust, which is comprised of some of the most prominent members of America's energy industry, is designed to be a clarion call to action, in order to build bridges and synergies between the African-American community and America's energy industry. 
   The purpose of this Braintrust will not only be the discussion of, but more importantly, the transformation of dialogue into action and legislation to address and bolster the relationships between the energy industry and African American consumers, entrepreneurs, investors, workers, and students. My hope and expectation is that six months from now each of today's presenters will join me to collectively and individually issue a plan of benchmarks, goals, and pathways to build concrete and coherent bridges and synergies between the African American community and America's energy industry. Moreover, part of this plan will be a formal mechanism such as a progress report to measure how each of today's prominent panelists and the companies they represent implement and achieve the benchmarks they helped to develop. This will ensure that we transform today's substantive discussion into pragmatic action. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. However, the U.S. is more than 60 percent dependent on foreign sources of energy, twice as dependent today as we were just 30 years ago. America's growing and dangerous energy dependence has resulted in the loss of hundreds of thousands of good American 
   jobs, skyrocketing consumer prices, and vulnerabilities in our national security. 
   Energy imports now make up one-third of America's trade deficit. America must improve the supply-demand imbalance, lower consumer prices, and increase jobs by producing more of its own energy resources. With my district of Houston being the energy capital of the world, the energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. 
   At this point in history, the energy industry is at a critical turning point where we can become active agents of change in our collective futures. America's dependence of foreign oil has led us to precarious position in terms of foreign policy and national security, while the youth of our nation have not received sufficient means to move to us a new direction. 
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. The energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. It is crucial that while seeking solutions to secure more energy independence within this country, we strike a balance that will still support an environment for continued growth in the oil and gas industry, which I might add, creates millions of jobs across the entire country. 
   We have many more miles to go before we achieve energy independence. Consequently, I am willing, able, and eager to continue working with Houston's and our nation's energy industry to ensure that we are moving expeditiously on the path to crafting an environmentally sound and economically viable energy policy. Furthermore, I think it is imperative that part of this policy includes increased involvement by small, minority and women owned businesses, and independent energy companies in this process because they represent some of the hard working Americans and Houstonians who are on the forefront of energy efficient strategies to achieving energy independence. 
   I will conclude by also emphasizing that renewable and alternate sources of energy must be part of our energy future in order to achieve energy independence. Replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, it can end our addiction to foreign oil. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our Nation's petroleum consumption. 
   Along with traditional production of ethanol from corn, cellulosic ethanol can be produced domestically from a variety of feedstocks, including switchgrass, corn stalks and municipal solid wastes, which are available throughout our nation. Cellulosic ethanol also relies on its own byproducts to fuel the refining process, yielding a positive energy balance. Whereas the potential production of traditional corn-based ethanol is about 10 billion gallons per year, the potential production of cellulosic ethanol is estimated to be 60 billion gallons per year. 
   I will close by emphasizing that we must be balanced and prudent in our approach to address our energy needs. By ensuring access to the African-American community and investing in renewable energy, I believe we can be partners with the responsible members of America's energy producing community present today to achieve our collective goal of reaching energy independence and increased inclusion of the African-American community. 
   CHILDREN'S ISSUES FORUM: HIP HOP: THE CULTURE OF A PEOPLE
   The Annual Legislative Conference is an opportunity for us to discuss and engage with some of the difficult issues that face us as a community and as a nation, This year, it was my honor and pleasure to host a Children's Issues Forum entitled ``The Language of Hip Hop: The Culture of a People,'' This timely and thought-provoking discussion and examination of the impact, both positive and negative, of hip hop on our community featured panelists from the hip hop industry, as well as activists and academics. 
   As a Member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Chairwoman of the Congressional Children's Caucus, and most importantly a mother, it is my priority to address issues relating to the health and well-being of African American youth in this country. I recognize that Hip Hop culture has had a tremendous influence on the artistic and musical expression of America's youth today. However, many view the culture of Hip Hop as a negative and provocative phenomenon due to some of the negative images and harsh lyrics that some artists use to express themselves. I believe that before we condemn Hip Hop, we must first try to understand it. The Children's Braintrust sought to reach such understanding. 
   Throughout history, music originating from America's Black communities has always had an accompanying subculture reflective of the political, social and economic conditions of the time. Rap is no different. The history of our music often exemplifies a deeper reflection of the goings on in society--from Billie Holiday's solemn song characterizing those who were lynched as ``Strange Fruit'' to Nina Simone's musical commentary in ``Mississippi G----D----'' expressing her disdain for the rampant killings in the South, to Tupac's expression of sincere compassion for poor black women, whom he urged to ``keep your head up'' despite the fact that society has turned its back on you. 
   Hip hop is the culture from which rap emerged. Hip hop is a lifestyle with its own language, style of dress, music and mind set that is continuously evolving. We have seen hip hop go from competitive freestyling to breakdancing battles to East Coast-West Coast rivalry. Surely, we lost two extremely talented individuals in Tupac and Biggie, much too soon. We all know their lives did not have to end so violently. But knowing this, we must ask ourselves, why does the violence continue to take so many of our youth? 
   My Children's Issues Forum was an opportunity to talk with each other, rather than at each other. Panelists and participants 
   came together to discuss solutions, and to look for a way forward that embraces the hip hop artists in their quest to fulfill their dreams but rejects the lethal language that often lends itself to less than desirable outcomes for our children. More and more, we see some of the negative messages affecting the way young people make decisions about engaging in sexual activity, drug use and using violence as a means to resolve conflict. The self esteem and desire of many young listeners to achieve greatness are being deflated by stereotypes and explicit lyrics in some Hip Hop lyrics. 
   While I uphold America's fundamental right to freedom of speech and believe that artists have a right to creative expression, a middle ground needs to be sought in order to allow artists to create music without demeaning and degrading others. It is difficult to progress as a community if we never take the time to carefully dissect the influence of Hip Hop on our children. 
   During my forum, panelists examined whether Hip Hop language is culture, creativity  or crisis, and explored the ``Stop Snitchin'' phenomenon that has had a negative impact on communities across the nation. This important Issues Forum was a substantial first step toward reaching a solution. The ALC is about fostering positive and creative change, and the Children's Braintrust made great strides toward making our communities safer for our children.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMBUSTIBLE DUST EXPLOSION AND FIRE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5522, requiring the Secretary of Labor to issue interim and final occupational safety and health standards regarding worker exposure to combustible dust, and for other purposes. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague from California, Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, Representative GEORGE MILLER for his leadership on this important issue. 
   The Worker Protection Against Combustible Dust Explosion and Fire Act requires the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA, to issue rules regulating combustible industrial dusts, like sugar dust, that can build up to hazardous levels and explode. There are numerous occasions in recent history where combustible dust levels have resulted in explosions, killing and injuring numerous workers. On February 7, 2008, the Imperial Sugar refinery in Port Wentworth, Georgia, exploded, killing 13 workers and seriously injuring more than 60 others in a combustible dust explosion. The tragedy at Imperial Sugar shows that the threat of dust explosions is very real at industrial worksites across America and needs to be addressed immediately. 
   In 2003, there were a total of 3 catastrophic dust explosions that resulted in the death of 14 workers. These explosions prompted the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, CSB, to issue a report in November 2006, identifying 281 conbustible dust incidents between 1980 and 2005 that resulted in 
   the death of 119 workers and injured 718. The Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board concluded their report finding, ``combustible dust explosions are a serious hazard in American industry.'' Since 2001, in case after case and industry after industry, 
   Since 2001, in case after case and industry after industry, OSHA has chosen to emphasize voluntary compliance over setting strong rules and enforcing them. Effective voluntary guidelines to control combustible dust hazards and prevent dust explosions already exist. But in order to truly protect workers, OSHA needs an enforceable standard in order to ensure industry compliance and to protect workers. Without an OSHA standard, many employers are unaware of the hazards of combustible dusts, while others have chosen not to adopt voluntary standards. 
   This important act directs OSHA to issue an interim final Combustible Dust standard within 90 days. The standard would include measures to minimize hazards associated with combustible dust through improved housekeeping, engineering controls, worker training and a written combustible dust safety program. This legislation also directs OSHA to issue a final standard within 18 months and fulfill all administrative rulemaking requirements including full public hearings, feasibility analysis and small business review. Lastly, H.R. 5522 directs OSHA to include combustible dusts in the Hazard Communication Standard which requires workers to receive information and training about the hazards they face on their jobs daily. 
   In addition, I would like to have seen companies submit certifications showing that they are in compliance of these sets of standards. This recommendation would ensure that companies follow the criteria outlined within this bill by certifying compliance. Also, the Secretary of Labor should do continuous inspections during the initial months of enactment, to ensure companies are in compliance. 
   Madam Chairman, this important legislation requiring the Secretary of Labor to issue interim and final occupational safety and health standards regarding worker exposure to combustible dust, and for other purposes, is necessary in order to protect Americans across the Nation. This important Act will help to prevent further accidents from occurring within the workplace. For these reasons, I strongly support H.R. 5522 and urge all members to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS AND PREVENTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 330, ``Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month''. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Congresswoman TAMMY BALDWIN of Wisconsin, for introducing this important piece of legislation. 
   Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month highlights an issue that has often been covered up even in this great nation. Rape is a violent assault, not a sexually-motivated or gratifying act. The rapist's aim is to dominate, humiliate, control and degrade the victim. For the victim of sexual assault, it is a wound that while covered never truly heals. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AUTHORIZING THE USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR THE NATIONAL PEACE OFFICERS' MEMORIAL SERVICE -- (House of Representatives - April 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 308, which authorizes the use of the Capitol grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service. 
   Peace officers, the sworn, public-sector officers entrusted with law enforcement authority and the power of arrest, risk their lives daily to protect our nation. These individuals, who are responsible for safeguarding the rights and freedoms we enjoy as Americans, are true heroes. 
   Peace Officers Memorial Day honors those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for the safety and security of their communities and our nation. Created by Public Law 87-726, signed by President Kennedy in 1962, this day gives us the opportunity to acknowledge and pay our respects to those who, through their courageous deeds, have fallen in the line of duty. 
   Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, May 15, 2008, our nation will come together to honor, remember and record those law enforcement officers who were killed in the line of duty during the year of 2007. Mr. Speaker, one of the names of the fallen heroes added to the list last year was Officer Rodney J. Johnson of the Houston Police Department. Officer Johnson, a 12 year veteran of the Houston Police Department, was killed September 21, 2006, while taking a suspect in custody during a traffic stop. He leaves to honor his memory his beloved wife, Houston Police Department Officer Joslyn Johnson, and five teen-age children; three daughters and two sons, ages 14 to 19. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson was born in Houston and served in the U.S. Army as a military police officer until being honorably discharged in 1990. He then went to work as a corrections officer for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice and then as a jail attendant. He graduated from the Houston police academy in 1994. 
   As a member of the department's Southeast Gang Task Force, Officer Rodney Johnson earned two Lifesaving Awards and one Medal of Valor from the state of Texas. In January 1998, Officer Rodney Johnson rescued a physically challenged driver trapped in rising floodwaters in January 1998 and later that year he rescued mentally challenged people trapped inside of a burning house. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson, who stood 6 feet 5 inches tall and weighed nearly 300 pounds, served on his union's board of directors. As Hans Marticiuc, the president of Officer Johnson's union stated, ``he was big and he was intimidating-looking, but he was as gentle as a baby bear.'' 
   Although the number of officers killed in the line of duty has declined in recent years, the fact that one officer is killed every two-and-a-half days in our country is a sober reminder that protecting our communities and safeguarding our democracy come at a heavy price. Last year, the total number of law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty was represented by 17,917 names engraved on the Memorial, representing officers from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, US territories, and federal law enforcement and military police agencies. 
   This resolution permits the Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary to sponsor a free public event, the 27th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service, on the Capitol grounds on May 15, 2008. This service will honor the law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty during 2007 who have died in the line of duty, as well as the 800,000 officers who continue to serve in Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies nationwide. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING AMERICA'S TEACHERS -- (House of Representatives - April 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1130 ``Recognizing the roles and contributions of America's teachers to building and enhancing our Nation's civic, cultural, and economic well being,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Missouri, Representative, Sam Graves. This important legislation illustrates a Nation's commitment to recognize the work and fortitude of America's teachers. It is the teacher's remarkable dedication to our students and their tireless efforts in support of education. These hard workers deserve the care, the admiration, and the benefits they have earned through their honorable service. 
   From the beginning, our Nation has recognized the importance of education and has always taken a leading role in its development. Teachers provide an education that represents mankind's potential to turn distant dreams into a practical reality. The expansion of our horizons has been essential for reasons beyond the advances it may provide. An education is a symbol of upward mobility and privileged wisdom. It is the foundation in which we generate innovative technology, methods and ideas that are used for the advancement of society. A higher education is vital. As we progress in technology and other critical advancements, there is a continuing shift from blue-collar to white-collar occupations; the number of available traditional jobs decline and new jobs demand greater sophistication, expertise, and an advanced degree. 
   Teachers are the catalyst to the quality of life and the gatekeepers to extensive knowledge. An instructor's dedication to educating and conveying knowledge is significant to the foundation of America's present and potential strength. Horace Mann, a well-renowned politician and educator, articulated the goals of public schools in the 1800s; not only would the country provide public schools, but there would be a teacher hired by the locals. Education was once decentralized to the level of the classroom where educators believed their ``professional place'' was in the classrooms. Instructors viewed teaching as a true profession; however, before long, they were expected to solve problems of society. Teachers were expected to teach health, sexual education, D.A.R.E., driver's education and supplementary courses that were not in conjunction with regular academia. Teachers provide an education which represents mankind's capability to turn remote dreams into a sensible reality. Teachers play a significant role in the greatness and affluence of the United States. Therefore, I humbly commend teachers for their outstanding contributions to this great Nation and throughout the year for their unyielding dedication and spirit to educate. 
   Mr. Speaker, we should continuously honor the teachers who have given their lives in service to this country. May 6, 2008 is Teacher Appreciation Day; this day will celebrate and recognize the valuable services that millions of teachers provide to the nation. Teacher Appreciation Day should be the crescendo of a years long's worth of recognition efforts. All too often, the contributions made by teachers to our country are forgotten. During National Teacher Appreciation Week, which is May 4, 2008, through May 10, 2008, the profession of teaching is promoted to encourage students, parents, school administrators, and public officials to partake in teacher appreciation events. It is fitting that we take time each year during Teacher Appreciation Week to thank our teachers--as the work they do has a tremendous and very direct effect on the lives of young people. As President Bush has said, ``There's nothing more noble than to teach.'' 
   The innumerable contributions of teachers are invaluable and shall never go unnoticed. The strategic teaching methods that teachers employ are ostensibly successful. Because of the exceptional work of their students, their involvement should never be disregarded. Teachers and other education staff undeniably deserve the respect of their students and communities for their selfless dedication to community service and the future of our Nation's children. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in-so-doing, honoring teachers and recognizing the lasting contributions they make to our lives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1061,``Observing the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and encouraging the people of the United States to pause and remember the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and for other purposes,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Georgia, Representative John Lewis. This praiseworthy legislation will commemorate the 40th anniversary of Dr. King's assassination by expanding his legacy and honoring his paradigm of nonviolence, courage, compassion, dignity, and public service. 
    On April 4, 1968, Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated while on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee. In remembering the 40th anniversary of Dr. King's assassination, we should take a moment to reflect upon the purpose for which Dr. King and other civil rights pioneers so resiliently fought. Through his philosophical words and fortified stance against racial injustice, Dr. King provided a road map for all to unite and share in the prosperity of this great democracy. While we acknowledge that our Nation has come a long way, Dr. King's dream has yet to be realized in its entirety. Martin Luther King's contributions to our history place him in this unparalleled position. It is Dr. King who represents the best in all of us and it is in his memory that we continue to devote ourselves to his vision. 
    In his short life, Martin Luther King was instrumental in helping us realize and rectify those unspeakable wrongs which tarnished the name of America. African Americans needed a Martin Luther King, but above all, America needed him. The significant qualities of this special man cannot be underestimated nor taken for granted. Within a span of 13 years, from 1955 to his death in 1968, he was able to expound, expose, and extricate America from many wrongs. Dr. King's inspiring words filled a great void in our nation, and answered our collective longing to become a country that truly lived by its dignified principles. And so we memorialize this man of action, who put his life on the line for freedom and justice every day. 
    Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King's ``I Have a Dream'' Speech, delivered on August 28, 1963, was a clarion call to each citizen of this great Nation that we still hear today. His request was simply and eloquently conveyed--he challenged America to live up to the true meaning of its creed, to make real the words written in its Declaration of Independence and to have a place in this Nation's Bill of Rights. It is with this goal in mind that we strive to provide equal opportunity to all. 
    Dr. King spoke about his contentment with the end of his mortal life in his last speech, ``I've Been to the Mountaintop,'' on April 3, 1968 at Mason Temple. Even then he lifted up the value of service as the hallmark of a full life and reiterated the importance of continuing the struggle for human rights. ``We've got some difficult days ahead. But it doesn't matter with me now because I've been to the mountaintop.'' We must continue to pay homage to the valor of a man who endured harassment, embarrassment, beatings, and bombings. We commemorate the man who went to 
   jail 29 times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting and organizing anyway. Dr. King's vision of equality under the law should never lose its vigor despite times of unevenness in our equality. For without that vision--without that dream--we can never continue to improve on the human condition. 
    During these difficult days when the United States is bogged down in a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has claimed the lives of over 4,000 men and women, we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was, above all, a person who was always willing to speak truth to power. There is perhaps no better example of Dr. King's moral integrity and consistency than his criticism of the Vietnam War being waged by the Johnson Administration, an administration that was otherwise a friend and champion of civil and human rights. He stated, ``We are adding cynicism to the process of death, for they must know after a short period there that none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really involved.'' 
    Dr. King was taken from us too soon at the tender age of 39 years old. Many people remember that Dr. King died in Memphis, but few remember why he was there. On that fateful day, the 4th day of April in 1968, Dr. King came to Memphis to lead a strike by the city's sanitation workers. 
    The death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., will never overshadow his life. He was both a dreamer and a man of action. Forty years after his death, Dr. King continues to teach us all. He leaves a legacy of hope, tempered with peace; although, it is a vision not yet fulfilled. 
    Mr. Speaker, words cannot convey or adequately repay the debt that is owed. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that are still universally felt; however, we can pay Dr. King and other civil rights pioneers no greater tribute than to carry on the work they believed in and paid the ultimate sacrifice for. The contributions that Dr. King provided are priceless and will never be forgotten. As we recognize the 40th Anniversary of the slaying of a martyr, let us remember to commemorate his vision, remember his message, and rededicate ourselves to his goal of a free and just United States. I hope every person here rededicates his or her life to fulfilling his legacy--that all of us here highly resolve that Dr. King's dream never dies but becomes a living reality for all the children of this great nation and the world. 
    I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in-so-doing, giving Dr. King the respect that he so greatly deserves. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES DEBATED IN SUSPENSIONS -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, as we debate various issues here in the United States Congress and in this House, it is sometimes important to remind Members of the history of this Nation and the importance of matters that Members discuss. They are called suspensions, but they're no less important and speak eloquently to the history and the diversity of this Nation. 
   I would quickly like to acknowledge my support for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 commemorative coin and support my colleague JOHN LEWIS for offering this very important initiative, for a country that does not remember its history is doomed to repeat the past. We've gained much from the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and I support the legislation. 
   As we speak today about honoring our history, I am also reminded that this is the week of the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King. This past Friday, I was able to stand in front of the hotel in which he was assassinated, walk out on to the balcony and be reminded of this peaceful giant. And so it is important for us to take a moment, of which we will do on this coming Thursday, to remember not so much his death and the violence of his death, but his love for humanity and the ability to bring people together. He truly was a leader of a movement. 
   Today, I stood with my colleagues, Congressman Baca and others, to support the national holiday for Cesar Chavez because they were brothers, Martin King and Cesar Chavez. 
   I think it is important as we look at Women's History Month that we recount not only our national figures as I support the debate that reminded us this past month, March 2008 was Women's History Month, how exciting it is to see the historic opportunities that women have had and are increasingly having, knowing that they just gained a vote in 1920. 
   I was very honored to be able to bring to the attention of my colleagues Ramona Tolliver, a champion and a fighter for empowerment of those in the Fifth Ward area; Nellie Joyce Punch, again from Houston, a fighter for those in the Fifth Ward area and educator and a lover of providing equal opportunity to young people; Dr. Deason, a long-standing principal in Houston of the High School for Health Professions. There is certainly no greater lover of education and helping our children than Dr. Deason. And certainly I think it is important to acknowledge Commissioner Sylvia Garcia in Houston who has turned the corner as the first woman commissioner in Harris County. Then, of course, I salute Shirley Chisholm and Carole Mosley Braun, women who ran for President, and my former predecessor Barbara Jordan. 
   Women are on the move, and it is certainly important to acknowledge their history in this country, and it should not be ignored that women have struggled to overcome, and that is, of course, the women who get up every morning and ride the buses and teach the schools and work for us in restaurants and in hospitals and are doctors and lawyers and others. Women deserve the honoring of this month.     
   And one who certainly deserves it is a Civil Cross winner, a young 19-year-old from Texas, Monica L. Brown. 
   Which brings me to the upcoming testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. Having just come back from Iraq, let me simply say that the legislation that I have offered, which I will discuss over the next couple of days into the testimony of the two individuals that will be coming, first of all, let me thank them for all of their service and offer my concern for the public servants and U.S. personnel in the Green Zone, of which we have stayed, who have been bombed in the last couple of days. It is the very clarity of what I saw that says to me it is time to bring our troops home. We serve no large purpose to engage in, if you will, the civil war that may be going on in Iraq. We can serve as technical advisers and counselors, and we can bring other nations together to assist in a peaceful transition. We can, as my bill says, bring our soldiers home in honor and begin a diplomatic surge; make the Maliki government engage in nonsectarianism, as the Sunnis told me face to face; eliminate the sectarianism, Shiite and Shiite, Kurds and Sunnis; and begin to talk about a stable Iraq. That is not America's task; it is a task of the Iraqi government, the Iraqi people. And it certainly is a task that we must charge Iran for them to stop sending mortars and ammunition to create the havoc that is going on. But that is not the war. That is not the resolution. That is not the war of America. It is clearly a time to transition. 
   Those are the hard questions that we will pose to our heroes, Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus. We appreciate that they have been trying to serve America in the best way possible, but it is now time to serve not only America and our sons and daughters but the American people who deserve an investment in their country, a rebuilding of the military, and an acknowledgment and celebration of the heroes of the Iraq War and certainly a recognition of those who still fight in Afghanistan for it is time now to focus our attention there. 
   With that, Madam Speaker, we look forward to saving America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ARTS REQUIRE TIMELY SERVICE (ARTS) ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1312, the ``Arts Require Timely Service, ARTS, Act,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Berman. This important legislation amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to allow for the expedited adjudication of an employer petition for an alien of extraordinary artistic ability, an alien accompanying such alien, or an alien who is an athlete or entertainer. 
   Mr. Speaker, to paraphrase President John F Kennedy, the true greatness of a nation can be measured by its accomplishments in the domain of the arts and culture. America has always benefited from the free flow of foreign artistic talent, some of which has served this country with great distinction, to mention but the late great cellist and Soviet dissident Mstislav ``Slava'' Rostropovich. Our immigration system is an important gateway for artists and musicians from abroad and as such it should serve the broader cultural goals of our Nation. 
   Mr. Speaker, by inviting foreign artists to perform, arts organizations in the United States provide American audiences the opportunity to experience a variety of artistic talent and encourage a supportive climate for American artists to perform abroad. In the last several years, nonprofit arts organizations have confronted dramatic delays and uncertainties in the processing of visa petitions for foreign guest artists. These delays not only impact the immediate availability of foreign artists to perform alongside American artists, but also threaten to impede the ability of U.S. artists to perform abroad. 
   When a nonprofit arts organization invites a foreign performer, or an entire symphony for that matter, the organization must calendar, advertise, and ticket performances far in advance, all on reliance that they will successfully petition for a visa for their guest performer. In the last several years, delays in processing have led many smaller arts organizations to stop engaging foreign artists altogether because they cannot risk the potential expense of canceling a performance as a result of slow visa processing. Those organizations that have persevered have seen increasingly frequent situations in which performances involving foreign guest artists must be cancelled because the U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Services, USCIS, cannot process visa petitions within a 6-month period before the performance. This is an issue not only for the arts organizations bringing in a foreign artists, but also American artists who are slated to be part of these performances, as well as all of the support staff employed by the organizations as a result of a performance. 
   Most nonprofit arts organizations cannot afford the current $1,000 fee for premium processing, a program that was adopted primarily at the request of for-profit corporations. Yet, regular visa processing can now take up to 180 days--too long for arts organizations to accommodate. These delays in the visa process can harm nonprofit institutions and the local economies in which they exist. 
   Since 2003, a bipartisan group of Members has urged USCIS to remedy this problem administratively. In October of that year, 16 members sent a letter to the USCIS Director encouraging him to implement a number of reforms including reducing processing for O and P petitions filed by or on behalf of nonprofit organizations to 30 days or automatically remove those petitions to premium processing at no additional fee. To date, these reforms have not been made administratively, and in discussions, USCIS has represented that they are not certain they could make such changes without legislative action. 
   The ARTS Act would address visa processing delays facing nonprofit arts organizations by amending section 214(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to require USCIS to shift to premium processing without additional fees any O or P visa that is not processed within 30 days of filing a complete petition if the petitioner is or is filing on behalf of a qualified nonprofit organization. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is not by accident that I wrote a letter on this subject to then USCIS Director Eduardo Aguirre. This act exemplifies the bipartisan spirit in which we should approach this important matter so that our Nation could continue to shine in the cultural field as it shines in other domains. 
   Mr Speaker, this legislation speaks directly to principles of cultural and intellectual exchange that our great Nation was founded upon. I am proud to support this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1312. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS, IDEALS, AND HISTORY OF NATIONAL WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1021, expressing support for the goals, ideals, and history of National Women's History Month. I would like to thank my friend and colleague, Congresswoman WOOLSEY, for introducing this legislation, which I am proud to cosponsor. Let me also thank the chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Chairman WAXMAN, for bringing this resolution before us today. 
   The purpose of National Women's History Month is to increase awareness and knowledge of women's involvement in history. I strongly believe that it is vital to honor the originality, beauty, imagination, and multiple dimensions of women's lives. As recently as the 1970s, women's history was rarely taught in schools, and was not part of public awareness. To address this situation, the Education Task Force of the Sonoma County, California, Commission on the Status of Women initiated a ``Women's History Week'' celebration for 1978. In 1981, in response to the growing popularity of women's history celebrations, Congress passed a resolution making Women's History Week a national observance. Within a few years, thousands of schools and communities across the country were celebrating National Women's History Week. 
   The popularity of women's history celebrations has sparked a new interest in uncovering women's forgotten heritage. Under the guidance of the National Women's History Project, educators, workplace program planners, parents and community organizations in thousands of American communities have turned National Women's History Month into a major celebration and a springboard for celebrating women's history all year round. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the early days of our great Nation, women were relegated to second class status. Women were considered sub-sets of their husbands, and after marriage they did not have the right to own property, maintain their wages, or sign a contract, much less vote. It was expected that women be obedient wives, never to hold a thought or opinion independent of their husbands. It was considered improper for women to travel alone or to speak in public. 
   The fight for women's suffrage was formally begun in 1848, and, in 1919, after years of petitioning, picketing, and protest parades, the 19th amendment was passed by both Houses of Congress; it was ratified the following year. 
   However, the right to vote did not give women equal rights, and subsequent decades saw an ongoing struggle for equality. A major success came with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. This law, enacted in June 1972, states ``No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.'' 
   Title XI, introduced by Congresswoman Patsy Mink, also notable as the first Asian American woman elected to Congress, has opened countless doors to educational activities, perhaps most prominently including high  school and collegiate athletics, to women. Congresswoman Mink's legacy lives on as, each year, hundreds of women across the Nation participate in NCAA athletics, learn teamwork and perseverance, earn scholarships enabling them to study at college, and enjoy equal footing with men in the academic arena. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am proud to pay tribute to the women, local heroes, of my district. Women like Ramona Tolliver, long time Fifth Ward resident, former precinct chair, founding board member of Fifth Ward Community Redevelopment Corporation, member of Our Mother of Mercy Catholic Church, and member of the Metropolitan Organization, who is still actively advocating for her community. Women like Nellie Joyce Punch, long time Fifth Ward resident, retired educator at Phyllis Wheatley High School, former precinct chair, founding board member of Fifth Ward Community Redevelopment Corporation, member of the Methodist Church, also actively working on behalf of her community. Both Ms. Tolliver and Ms. Punch are active in Houston's Fifth Ward, where they act as the conscience for the community, calling for change and actively working to better our city. 
   Women like Dr. Charlesetta Deason, principal of Houston's DeBakey High School for Health Professions. Dr. Deason helms a school that offers students interested in science and health careers an alternative to the traditional high school experience, located in the renowned Texas Medical Center and boasting an ethnically diverse faculty and an excellent introductory study of medicine. 
   Or women like Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia, the first Hispanic and first woman to be elected in her own right to the office. Commissioner Garcia is active in the Houston community, and she has served on more than 25 community 
   boards and commissions, including the San Jacinto Girl Scouts, the Houston Hispanic Forum, the American Leadership Forum, the Texas Southern University Foundation, and the Institute of Hispanic Culture. 
   As a Nation, we have come a long way toward recognizing the important role women play, not only in our local communities, but in our Nation as a whole. Since 1917, when Representative Jeannette Rankin of Montana became the first woman to serve in Congress, 243 more women have served as U.S. Representatives or Senators. In 1968, Shirley Chisholm became the first African American woman elected to Congress; I am now proud to be one of 13 African American women serving in this body. 
   In addition, we are now, for the first time, under the leadership of a woman Speaker of the House. Speaker Pelosi has led this Democratic Congress in a new direction, listening to the will of the American people, as it was clearly expressed last November. 
   Mr. Speaker, the great tragedy of women's history is that, many times, the history of women is not written down. Too often, throughout the course of history, the contributions of women have gone unrecorded, unheralded, and are now forgotten. And so, Mr. Speaker, during Women's History Month, we do not stand here only to remember the Eleanor Roosevelts, Harriet Tubmans, and Rosa Parks, women who are now celebrated in our schools and history books, but also the millions of female unsung heroes who built this Nation, and who made it truly great. 
   I would like to pay special tribute to women, mothers, and grandmothers across the country. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the growing phenomenon of grandparents raising children. As of 1996, 4 million children were being raised by their grandparents, and statistics published the following year indicated that more than one-tenth of all grandparents provided the primary care for their grandchildren for at least 6 months and typically much longer. These numbers continue to grow, and these grandparents, generally ineligible for financial or social support, often suffer greatly to provide a safe and loving home for these children. 
   In addition, Mr. Speaker, we pay tribute to the brave women who serve proudly in our Nation's military. We have come a long way since the first American woman soldier, Deborah Sampson of Massachusetts, who enlisted as a Continental Army soldier under the name of ``Robert Shurtlief.'' Women served with distinction in World War II: 350,000 American women served during World War II, and 16 were killed in action. In total, they gained over 1,500 medals, citations, and commendations. In December 1989, CPT Linda L. Bray, 29, became the first woman to command American soldiers in battle, during the invasion of Panama. 
   The war in Iraq marks the first time in American history that a substantial number of the combat wounded are women. 350,000 women are serving in the U.S. military--almost 15 percent of active duty personnel, and one in every seven troops in Iraq is a woman. Women play a role in nearly all types of military operation, and they have time and time again demonstrated extreme bravery, courage, and patriotism. 
   I would particularly like to honor one of our heroic daughters: Army SPC Monica L. Brown. Brown is the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the Nation's third-highest medal for valor. Army SPC Monica Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the Humvees. After the explosion, in which five soldiers in her unit were wounded, Brown ran through insurgent gunfire and used her body to shield wounded comrades as mortars fell less than 100 yards away. Army Specialist Brown, a native Texan, represents the best of our Nation's fighting men and women, and she clearly demonstrates that the admirable qualities of patriotism, valor, and courage know no gender. 
   Mr. Speaker, Women's History Month is an opportunity for all Americans to reflect on the women who have built, strengthened, and maintained this great Nation. Women who have often gone unrecognized and unheralded for their great achievements, sacrifices, and contributions. I ask my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to the women in their communities, in their families, and in their lives. 
   I, along with the residents of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, recognize the unique contributions of women throughout the course of American history. I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR A NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE FOR HARRIET ROSS TUBMAN -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 310, expressing support for a national day of remembrance for Harriet Ross Tubman, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Maryland, Representative Cummings. Harriet Ross Tubman was an African-American abolitionist, humanitarian, and Union Spy during the United States Civil War and as such deserves to be honored for her brave service by members of the United States Congress. 
   Harriet Tubman was born into slavery in Dorchester County, Maryland, of purely African ancestry. Harriet Tubman was born Araminta ``Minty'' Ross to slave parents, Harriet ``Rit'' Green and Ben Ross. Rit was owned by Mary Pattison Brodess and later her son Edward, while Ben was legally owned by Mary's second husband, Anthony Thompson, who ran a large plantation near the Blackwater River in Dorchester County, Maryland. Tubman was beaten and whipped often by her various owners as a child. Early in life she suffered a traumatic head wound when an irate slave owner threw a heavy metal weight at her, intending to hit another slave. The injury caused disabling seizures, headaches, and powerful visionary and dream activity, and spells of hypersomnia which occurred throughout her entire life. 
   In 1849, Tubman became ill, and her value as a slave was diminished as a result. Edward Brodess tried to sell her but could not find a buyer. Angry at this effort and the unjust hold he kept on her relatives, Tubman began to pray for her owner, asking God to make him change his ways. After her sell was considered finalized she `switched' tactics on how she was praying and one week later Brodess died. Tubman expressed regret for her earlier sentiments. Ironically, Brodess's death increased the likelihood that Tubman would be sold and the family would be broken apart. Tubman refused to wait for the Brodess' family to decide her fate, despite her husband's efforts to dissuade her. ``There was one of two things I had a right to,'' she says, ``liberty or death; if I could not have one, I would have the other.'' 
   Harriet Tubman was given a piece of paper by a white neighbor with two names, and told how to find her path to freedom. In 1849, Tubman escaped to Philadelphia. At the first house she was put into a wagon, covered with a sack, and driven to her next destination. Following the paper in route to Pennsylvania, she initially settled in Philadelphia, where she met William Still, the Philadelphia Stationmaster on the Underground Railroad. With the assistance of Still, and other members of the Philadelphia Anti-Slavery Society, she learned about the workings of the UGRR. She immediately returned to rescue her family. Slowly, one group at a time she brought relatives with her out of state, and eventually guided dozens of other slaves to freedom. 
   Traveling by night with extreme caution, Tubman never lost a passenger. Heavy rewards were offered for many of the people she helped free, but no one knew it was Harriet Tubman who was helping them. When a far-reaching United States Fugitive Slave Law was passed in 1850, she helped guide fugitives further north into Canada, and helped newly-freed slaves find work. In 1851 she began relocating 
   members of her family to St. Catharines, Ontario Canada West. North Street in St. Catharines remained her base of operations until 1857. While there she worked various odd jobs to finance her activities as a Conductor on the UGRR, and attended the Salem Chapel BME Church on Geneva Street. Word of her exploits had encouraged her family, and biographers agree that she became more confident with each trip to Maryland. As she led more and more individuals out of slavery, she became popularly known as ``Moses''--an allusion to the prophet in the book of Exodus who led the Hebrews to freedom. 
   When the American Civil War broke out in 1861, Tubman saw a Union victory as a key step toward the abolition of slavery. Tubman hoped to offer her own expertise and skills to the Union cause, too, and soon she joined a group of Boston and Philadelphia abolitionists heading to the Hilton Head District in South Carolina. She became a fixture in the camps, particularly in Port Royal, South Carolina, assisting fugitives. Tubman worked for the Union Army, first as a cook and nurse, and then as an armed scout and spy. The first woman to lead an armed expedition in the war, she guided the raid on the Combahee River, which liberated more than seven hundred slaves. 
   Harriet Tubman, widely known and well-respected while she was alive, became an American icon in the years after her death. In all she is believed to have conducted approximately 300 persons to freedom in the North. The tales of her exploits reveal her highly spiritual nature, as well as a grim determination to protect her charges and those who aided them. She always expressed confidence that God would aid her efforts, and threatened to shoot any of her charges who thought to turn back. When she died, Tubman was buried with military honors at Fort Hill Cemetery in Auburn. 
   Today, I seek to offer my condolences for her death, and also recognize her lifetime of accomplishments. For these reasons, I strongly support H. Con. Res. 310 and urge all my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964 COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2040, requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the semicentennial of the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Georgia, Representative John Lewis. 
    I speak out today to commemorate the progress we have made in casting out the demons of prejudice and discrimination. I speak out today recognize the steps we have taken as a Nation to get closer to the American Creed. However, I must also speak out today to call attention to the progress we have yet to make in order to fulfill the tenants of Civil Rights Act of 1964. I speak out today to challenge this Nation to uphold our founding principles of equal opportunity for all, regardless of race, color, sex, religion and national origin. 
    Though 44 years have passed since the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, today, in 2008, we are still witnessing horrible violations of the principles of this act. To cite a recent example, in Waller County, Texas, an attempted disenfranchisement of Prairie View A&M University students continues today, although the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed Prairie View A&M University student voter rights in 1979. 
    On November 5, 2003, the Waller County, Texas district attorney requested that the county Elections Administration bar the students at Historically Black College Prairie View A&M University from voting locally by virtue of his unilateral interpretation of ``domicile'' for voting purposes. Texas voter registration law only requires a person to be a resident of the county at least 30 days prior to the elections. African-American students represent the majority of Prairie View A&M's student body of 7,000 members, and these students constitute a major voting bloc in Waller County. The district attorney's request sought to effectively disenfranchise African-American college students in this area; as such, this request suggested a form of voter intimidation and likely had the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color. Despite a prolonged dialog with Texas officials regarding this matter, relief from the pressures and intimidation experienced by the students when attempting to exercise their rights was never provided. This example does not stand alone among the long list of discriminatory acts that continue to plague our Nation. 
    The Civil Rights Act of 1964 Commemorative Coin Act requires the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue, during 2014, up to 350,000 $1 coins designed to be emblematic of the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its contribution to civil rights in America. This coin would symbolize our progress, commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and serve as a constant reminder of the work we still have to do. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 Commemorative Coin Act would also provide a surcharge of $10 per coin. All surcharges received in conjunction with the sale of this coin would be paid to the United Negro College Fund, UNCF. The $10 per coin surcharge will help the UNCF provide scholarships and internships for minority students. The money will also provide operating funds and technology enhancement services for 39 member historically Black colleges and universities throughout America. 
    Madam Speaker, this important legislation would commemorate a landmark event in our history as Americans. By requiring the Secretary of the Treasurer to mint coins in commemoration of the semicentennial of the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, this legislation will celebrate our history, while also pushing us forward into a better future. For these reasons, I strongly support H.R. 2040 and urge all Members to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ESTABLISHING MARCH 2008 AS NATIONAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 945, raising awareness and promoting education on the criminal justice system by establishing March  2008 as ``National Criminal Justice Month,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Texas, Representative Ted Poe. This important legislation calls on policymakers, educators, criminal justice officials, community leaders, victim service providers, nonprofits, and others to promote awareness of how to prevent and respond to crime through the creation of a National Criminal Justice Month. 
   A country's criminal justice system is often a reflection of what values the society deems to be important. Our criminal justice system serves as a means for society to enforce the standards of conduct necessary to protect individuals and the community. During this month we need to be mindful of the need for criminal justice reform. Currently, there are approximately seven million adults on probation, parole, or are incarcerated causing the cost of crime to individuals, communities, businesses, and the various levels of government to be well into the billions. I have sought to alleviate a number of the sentencing disparities responsible for such frivolous government spending through various pieces of legislation, including my ``The Second Chance Act'' and ``The Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007'' that will help to lessen some of the economic and social burden. Our focus should be to educate Americans and to promote awareness within American society as to the causes and consequences of crime, as well as the strategies and developments for preventing and responding to crime. 
   The American people deserve to have a knowledge of the criminal justice system; thus, allowing society to feel safe in their homes as well as on the streets. In 2006, fifty percent of Americans admitted they feared that their home would be burglarized when they are not home, thirty-four percent of American women feared that they would be sexually assaulted, and forty-four percent of Americans feared they would be a victim of a terrorist attack. That is unacceptable. Americans need to be educated about the criminal justice system and how it works to protect all Americans. 
   During this month there has to be a joint effort between policymakers, criminal justice officials, educators, victim service providers, nonprofit organizations, community leaders, and others to promote awareness of how to prevent and respond to crime. It is imperative that we reach out through all the above names avenues to ensure that each and every American knows just how their criminal justice system operations protect them. 
   This important legislation creates an avenue through which to educate the American people about the criminal justice system as well as the causes and consequences of crime, how to prevent crime, and how to respond to crime. I strongly support this important legislation and urge all my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment in the nature of a substitute for it undermines and it strikes all of the important initiatives that cause this legislation to be one of the imperative legislative initiatives of this Congress. 
   It impacts negatively the middle class. It undermines the qualified teacher provision. It takes away the reward for public service and, of course, it does not deal with the issue of philanthropic participation in college retention and financing. 
   But let me tell you what I am supporting. I am supporting the single largest increase in college funding, college aid since the GI Bill. I am supporting the mother who spoke to me on the way up to Washington saying, ``I'm a middle class, single parent, working to send my daughter to college, and I just can't do it. Does anybody understand that plea? I just can't do it.'' This helps this mother send her daughter to college! 
   And what does this aid package do? This incentive package reinvests in America's young people! It reinvests by strengthening the middle class, by making college more affordable. It increases the power of the Pell Grant through scholarship. It insures that we have qualified teachers in every classroom. It is an equal opportunity promoter of education for Americans. 
   And then it does something unique. It does something that is not discriminatory. It reflects on the value of historically black colleges, Hispanic-serving colleges and other colleges that serve underserved populations. 
   I know the real truth of that, representing Texas Southern University when our Governor could find no other way to solve the problem of that college other than to put it into a conservatorship. Isn't it interesting, Mr. Speaker, that if they had put it into a conservatorship, they would have lost all of their accreditation. 
   This bill invests in helping to retain students. It gives them scholarships. It promotes the colleges. 
   I don't know if this can be seen, but it is clear when we show this example of what Republicans have done in investing in our college education and what Democrats have done.     
   I know that my good friend on the other side of the aisle agrees with me that the education of our children is not a partisan issue. So I would encourage him to, if you will, ignore his motion for a substitute and support the underlying bill because colleges like Texas Southern University, Prairie View A&M and Morgan State and Florida A&M are grateful. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2669, the Education and Labor College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. This bill does much more than ease the burden of student loans for college graduates--it will make the American dream possible for low- and middle-income students and families who pay for college. Mr. Speaker, in 21st-century America, a college education is critical for individual success and the strength of our Nation. Higher education is associated with better health, greater wealth, and more vibrant civic participation, as well national economic competitiveness in today's global environment. As the need for a college degree has grown, however, so has the cost of obtaining that education. The result is rising student debt. 
   H.R. 2669 would provide about $18 billion in college financial aid at no new cost to taxpayers. This new investment is critical for African-American students and their families, especially given that African-American students comprise about 12 percent of all undergraduate students. Many institutions have helped black students bridge ethnic-related economic barriers, making a college education possible for underprivileged minorities. Among historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), which give African American students an opportunity to have an educational experience in a community in which they are a part of the majority, costs are also rising. This resolution would support many of these honorable institutions in their righteous deeds in educating our underprivileged students of color. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2669 because it will increase the maximum Pell Grant award by $500 and increase eligibility to 
   serve more students in the program. The Federal Pell Grant Program prides itself on providing need-based grants to low-income undergraduate and certain postbaccalaureate students to promote access to postsecondary education. Forty-five percent of African American and Hispanic students at 4-year colleges depend on Pell Grants, compared to 23 percent of all students. Approximately 4.5 million students currently depend on Pell Grants and ``over 70 percent of Pell Grant funds go to students from families with incomes of $20,000 a year or less''. Increasing the maximum Pell Grant Award will expand racial and ethnic diversity in higher education institutions, benefiting not only the institutions cultural background but it will also be a great learning experience for students to learn diverse cultural background different from their own. 
   H.R. 2669 would cut the interest rates on need-based Federal student loans in half from 6.8 percent to 3-4 percent over 5 years. Once fully implemented, this cut would save the typical borrower--with about $13,800 in need-based loan debt--$4,400 over the life of the loan. About 38 percent of African-American students take out need-based student loans each year. By cutting interest rates on Federal loans, Congress can save college graduates thousands of dollars over the life of their loans. Mr. Speaker, recent graduates, especially those of minority status with low to moderate incomes, must spend the vast majority of their salaries on necessities such as rent, health care, and food. For borrowers struggling to cover basic costs, student loan repayment can create a significant and measurable impact on their lives. 
   Crushing student debt also has societal consequences, according to a report by two highly respected economists, Drs. Saul Schwarz and Sandy Baum, the prospect of burdensome debt likely deters skilled and dedicated college graduates from entering and staying in important careers educating our Nation's children and helping the country's most vulnerable populations. 
   To solve this problem and ensure that higher education remains within reach for all Americans, we need to increase need-based grant aid; make loan repayment fair and affordable; protect borrowers from usurious lending practices; and provide incentives for State governments and colleges to control tuition costs. H.R. 2669 is an important step in a new and right direction for America. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 2669, the Education and Labor College Cost Reduction Act of 2007.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (A TRIBUTE TO DAVID RAY RITCHESON -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this evening I rise to introduce H. Res. 535 in tribute to David Ray Ritcheson, a survivor of one of the most horrific hate crimes in the history of Texas, and recognizing his efforts in promoting Federal legislation to combat hate crimes. 
   David Ray Ritcheson, a Mexican American, was a friendly and cheerful student at Klein Collins High School in the Houston suburb of Spring, Texas and a popular and talented football athlete who was loved and admired by his family and friends. However, on April 23, 2006, at the age of 16, David Ray Ritcheson was severely assaulted while attending a party in Spring, Texas by skinheads who assaulted and violated him because of his race. 
   It was through his suffering of this enormous tragedy, having gone through more than 30 surgeries to restore his appearance and regain the  normal use of his body, that this young man stayed steadfast and came to the Judiciary Committee in 2007 and gave the most passionate plea for the passage of the Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007. 
   This resolution, Mr. Speaker, is a resolution in tribute to Mr. David Ray Ritcheson, after having lost his life in July of 2007. We look forward to the debate of this resolution on the floor of the House, and we pay tribute to David Ray Ritcheson for his courage and for the tragedy that took his life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE 500TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST USE OF THE NAME ``AMERICA'' -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Let me first of all thank our colleague, Congressman ALCEE HASTINGS, for introducing this meaningful measure that speaks to the very heart of our Nation, as well as its history. 
   The resolution before the House today acknowledges the 500th anniversary of the use of the name ``America'' which first appeared on a map of the world drafted by a German cartographer, Martin Waldseemuller in 1507. The only known surviving copy of the first printed edition of this map is now housed in our own Library of Congress. It was the first map to depict the continent beyond Europe's western horizon, with the Pacific shown on its opposite shore as a separate ocean. 
   This measure also acknowledges the contribution of explorer Amerigo Vespucci in radically shifting human understanding of world geography. No longer was the globe thought to be divided only among Europe, Asia and Africa. This, in turn, inspired Martin Waldseemuller to adopt Vespucci's given name and to confer it on the newly charted Western Hemisphere. Mr. Speaker, this might be called the first act of immigration. 
   It is important that we celebrate this historic occasion because ``America'' has come to symbolize much more than a name placed on a map half a millennium ago. For centuries, it has been seen by many as a promised land, where a new start offers endless possibilities. So many have come to our shores, seeking opportunity, fleeing persecution, fleeing prosecution against those values that they hold so dear, and looking for economic opportunity. And for decades, this country has played a global leadership role, offering hope for relief from oppression and tyranny. 
   Our Independence Day festivities which we just celebrated with great gusto last week reminds Americans and the world every year of a unique place in history this country holds. 
   I, for one, held the first Citizenship Day in the history of Houston on Independence Day. It was a joyful celebration of the freedom and the independence of those great days of this great Nation. 
   I would like to acknowledge the Americans Abroad Caucus, which saw this resolution as an opportunity to promote international geographical understanding and to celebrate the expansive symbolism of this great and wonderful country. As well, it comes as an opportunity to support and emphasize the symbolism of the word ``America'' and what it has come to signify. 
   I would also like to acknowledge the America 500th Birthday Organizing Committee and their ``Who Named America'' initiative which has coordinated a series of city, county and State proclamations consistent with the spirit of this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support H. Res. 287. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE 500TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST USE OF THE NAME ``AMERICA'' -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I'm delighted to yield such time as he might consume to the sponsor of this bill, Representative ALCEE L. HASTINGS, who is the chairman of the Rules Subcommittee on the Legislative and Budget Process and is also the international chairperson of the Helsinki Commission. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE 500TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST USE OF THE NAME ``AMERICA'' -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman from Florida. Again, let me acknowledge Mr. Lantos, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and Mr. Engel as well. This is an important piece of history, and I am very grateful for this legislation to provide us another chain link, if you will, another connection to the history of America. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, which is H. Res. 287.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING 2007 AS THE YEAR OF THE RIGHTS OF INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS IN COLOMBIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 426) recognizing 2007 as the Year of the Rights of Internally Displaced Persons in Colombia, and offering support for efforts to ensure that the internally displaced people of Colombia receive the assistance and protection they need to rebuild their lives successfully, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING 2007 AS THE YEAR OF THE RIGHTS OF INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS IN COLOMBIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I would first like to express our appreciation to our colleagues, Congressman JIM MCGOVERN and Congressman JOE PITTS, for introducing this important legislation. Let me also thank the Chair of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, Mr. ELIOT ENGEL, and the Chair and ranking member of the Africa and Global Health Subcommittee, Mr. Payne and Mr. Smith, for bringing this issue to our attention. For those who have recently visited Colombia, I can assure the sponsors of this legislation that this is a timely and important and constructive addition to the assistance of displaced persons in Colombia. 
   The McGovern resolution brings long overdue attention to the continuing plight of Colombia's internally displaced people. Ongoing violence over the last 20 years among paramilitary groups, guerillas and government security forces has forced millions of civilians to leave their homes, wander the streets and the countryside and simply struggle to survive. It has to be a miserable existence. 
   Colombia's internally displaced population represents one of the worst humanitarian crises in the hemisphere and the second largest population of internally displaced in the world after Sudan. While the entire world knows about the hardships facing the people of Sudan, Colombia's internally displaced suffer in great silence. 
   For this reason, the United Nations' High Commissioner for Refugees has deemed it the greatest hidden humanitarian crisis in the world. Over the past two decades, approximately 3.8 million Colombians, or about 8 percent of Colombia's entire population, have been displaced from their homes due to violence and conflict and through no fault of their own. 
   President Uribe is a solid ally of the United States in South America. He has made enormous strides in protecting his own people, but clearly he faces an uphill battle. In our conversations, in my visit to Colombia, along with several Members, including Congressman GREG MEEKS, we made this a very strong point, meeting with some of the internally displaced persons and recognize that this is an enormous challenge that this Congress must confront and provide assistance to these people and to the government to do what is right. 
   Sadly, an estimated 200,000 people are forced to flee their homes or places of refuge each year. For these people, Colombia is home, but Colombia has no  home for them. One-third of the internally displaced are from the Afro-Colombian and indigenous peoples communities, a percentage likely to increase this year. This type of ethically based displacement is particularly abhorrent. It is important to note as well that the people continue to be displaced, and they continue to be without a place to go. 
   Like many refugees around the world, the overwhelming majority of Colombia's internally displaced are also women and children. Few of these millions of people have been able to return to their homes. Tragically, these refugees often are misplaced multiple times. They are poor and more disenfranchised than the general population, and they are more fearful of repercussions should they attempt to identify their attackers. The World Food Programme and the UNHCR estimate that more than 70 percent suffer from food insecurity and inadequate shelter or limited health care services. 
   I am grateful to acknowledge the Mickey Leland Center, which my friend and colleague, Mr. McGovern, serves on, as do I, and the efforts they have made in providing food for persons like those displaced in Colombia. 
   With passage of this important measure, the United States Congress will encourage the United States, the international donor community, and the Colombian Government to create coordinated responses that address this humanitarian crisis, provide increased resources and protection for this highly vulnerable population and help them to successfully build their lives. 
   Bringing attention to the humanitarian crisis of Colombia's internally displaced people and assisting them to live in safety with dignity are priorities that every Member of Congress can and should embrace. 
   It is a call to our shared humanity, and I urge all Members to support H. Res. 426. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING 2007 AS THE YEAR OF THE RIGHTS OF INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS IN COLOMBIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member for her leadership on this issue and the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Lantos. Again, my appreciation and the committee's appreciation to Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. Pitts for their joint collaboration on a very instructive and important lifesaving measure. 
   As someone who has recently returned, let me again say that the voices of these individuals have to be heard through the humanitarian efforts of this Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE NEW POWER-SHARING GOVERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I would like, first of all, to commend our distinguished colleague, Mr. Gallegly of California, for introducing an important resolution that commemorates a historic occasion in the quest for lasting peace in Northern Ireland.     
   On May 8, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern pronounced ``the historic beginning of a new era for Northern Ireland, an era founded on peace and partnership, an era of new politics and new realities.'' 
   That day indeed marked a new era as age-old rivals Ian Paisley of the Democratic Unionist Party and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein became Northern Ireland's First Minister and Deputy First Minister, respectively, taking their places in the new power-sharing government at Stormont. 
   May 8 also marked the end of direct rule from London and the end of guns and bombs as a form of political expression. These developments provide an opportunity for the people of Northern Ireland to govern themselves. 
   Finally, that day marked the end of decades of conflict and gave hope to the spirit of reconciliation, hope that may inspire those in other communities ravaged by sectarian conflict to keep striving to find peace. We think in particular today of the conflicts of Iraq, Lebanon, Israel and Palestine, Cyprus, and Kashmir. The end to civil wars can bring true peace. Ireland is a true example. And since, of course, the war in Iraq is raging as a civil war, this is a most potent model of success for peace and reconciliation. 
   We know it will not be easy for these dividing societies to achieve lasting peace, but it was not an easy road for Northern Ireland's war-weary politicians. The prospect of reconciliation was tantalizingly close in April, 1998, when political leaders signed the Good Friday Agreement and voters endorsed its provisions in a referendum. I am reminded of traveling to Ireland with then chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Ben Gilman, as we went from area to area talking with the disparate groups addressing the question of peace in Ireland. In December, 1999, the new Northern Ireland Executive finally met for the first time after repeated failures to agree upon its membership. 
   During the next 3 years, the assembly operated in fits and starts as political leaders sought to reach agreement on outstanding issues, such as the decommissioning of weapons and reform of the police service. Trust between the two communities deteriorated to such a point that devolution was suspended in October, 2002, and not restored until this past May. It is due in large part to the tireless efforts of Northern Ireland's political representatives as well as the constant encouragement of Ireland and Britain's long-serving leaders, Bertie Ahern and Tony Blair, that solutions were eventually found to the most vexing problems. And may we be reminded that there were those who were willing to lay down their weapons. 
   I would also like to pay tribute to the efforts of Presidents Bush and Clinton as well as former Senator George Mitchell, who worked together with British and Irish leaders to fulfill the promises of the Good Friday Agreement. Senator George Mitchell worked without ceasing and worked with passion and heart. 
   It is, of course, the people of Northern Ireland who are the biggest winners, as we in this House hope the establishment of the new power-sharing government heralds the dawn of a truly new era characterized by peace, prosperity and mutual respect for all races and religions. 
   Madam Speaker, I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE NEW POWER-SHARING GOVERNMENT IN NORTHERN IRELAND -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the sponsors of this legislation. This was an important discussion on the floor. 
   And I might just conclude in my thanks to the ranking member and the chairman of the full committee, and remind my colleagues that the message of this legislation is the point of individuals in conflict willing to lay their guns and weapons down in what has been a long-standing civil war, and their ability to share power; important lessons for countries or nations like Iraq, Lebanon, and many, many others. 
   With that, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE DECISION BY THE UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE UNION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM TO SUPPORT A BOYCOTT OF ISRAELI ACADEMIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 467) condemning the decision by the University and College Union of the United Kingdom to support a boycott of Israeli academia, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE DECISION BY THE UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE UNION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM TO SUPPORT A BOYCOTT OF ISRAELI ACADEMIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me first express our great appreciation to our colleague from Pennsylvania, Representative PATRICK MURPHY, for introducing this important and timely measure. 
   Madam Speaker, on May 30, the University and College Union of the United Kingdom voted to urge its membership to boycott Israeli faculty in academic institutions, an extraordinary action by men and women of letters in a free society and the belief in academic freedom. 
   Mr. Murphy's resolution today voices the extreme disapproval of the United States Congress of the Union's shortsighted, simpleminded and singularly  offensive action. What the University and College Union has done flies in the face of the very values that define democracies and are critical to their success, freedom of inquiry and freedom of speech, or freedom to disagree. 
   If the University and College Union follows through with this boycott, it will also spark numerous individual and institutional boycotts against British academics and others who likewise have similar values. An academic boycott is a blatant effort to stifle free thinking and debate, the hallmarks of a democratic society. From any point of view, it is wrong. Only in the most extreme moral exigencies would I find the need to take such an action and for such an action to be acceptable.     
   In this particular instance, however, it seems outright wrong. By singling out the conduct of Israel, which is a democratic and pluralistic society surrounded by states with many charges of human rights violations against them, the union's leadership has revealed its true purpose, to demonize Israel. It is simply inexplicable how the union has turned a blind eye to the world's worst violators of human rights and targeted Israel only. 
   If anything, Israeli universities are one of the few places in the world where one will find Jews and Arabs learning side by side. The union's selective sympathy demonstrates a profound ignorance of Israel's academic community and the threats that the country faces. 
   Having personally visited Israel and its academic institutions, I can tell you that Jews and Arabs do study side by side, and the good news is that they learn, and they learn from each other, and out of that comes positive reaction to the conflicts of the region. 
   The events of this past month in the Gaza Strip in which Hamas lay waste to the legitimate institutions of the Palestinian Authority in Gaza further underscore the profound misjudgment of union leaders to narrowly condemn Israel. 
   The University and College Union of the United Kingdom has thus far chosen to ignore these developments and instead focused its wrath on Israel's ongoing efforts to defend itself against Hamas and other terrorists. If the union truly cared about helping Palestinians, it would help nurture dialogue among Israeli and Palestinian academics and come to the resolution that the two states must live side by side, and Israel has a right to exist. It would support institutions that help to develop, not stunt the educational sector for Israelis and Palestinians. And most importantly, it would condemn Hamas and others that repeatedly hijack and sabotage any possibility of a lasting two-state solution to the conflict. 
   By blaming the victims for the terrorists' crimes, the union's actions represent a bizarre inversion of the most fundamental principles of human rights. People of conscience have no choice but to speak out against this hypocrisy. In the face of terror and those who are morally blind to it, we must stand up for the values we cherish: openness, dialogue, democracy and freedom. 
   That is why Mr. Murphy's legislation is so important, and that is why I call upon all of my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE DECISION BY THE UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE UNION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM TO SUPPORT A BOYCOTT OF ISRAELI ACADEMIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, it gives me particular pleasure to introduce and to yield 6 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from the Eighth District of Pennsylvania, Representative PATRICK J. MURPHY, a member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and a veteran of the Iraq war. I believe this may be his first legislative initiative, and we yield to him 6 minutes as we congratulate him for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE DECISION BY THE UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE UNION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM TO SUPPORT A BOYCOTT OF ISRAELI ACADEMIA -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me add my appreciation to Congressman Murphy for a powerful statement on the floor in affirmation of the sense of responsibility involving academic freedom and the important responsibility in opposition to anti-Semitism that seems to plague this world on many occasions. Let me thank him for his leadership, thank Mr. Burton and thank the ranking member and the chairman of the full committee. 
   With that, I ask my colleagues, with great enthusiasm, to support this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 500) expressing the sense of the House of Representatives in opposition to efforts by major natural gas exporting countries to establish a cartel or other mechanism to manipulate the supply of natural gas to the world market for the purpose of setting an arbitrary and nonmarket price or as an instrument of political pressure, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution and yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I would like to thank our distinguished colleague, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, for introducing this important resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, one of the most confusing inventions over the past century was the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Some call it a cartel, some call it a monopoly, and some just call it what it is, that is, price-gouging by a few countries that have managed to challenge the international security in the process. 
   Recently, several leaders of the major exporters of natural gas, including Iran, have publicly advocated the establishment of an international cartel similar to that of OPEC , thus proposing to create a ``gas OPEC.'' 
   The Iranian supreme leader has been very clear in his interest to use his cartel as an instrument for political purposes. 
   Although the United States currently is largely self-sufficient in natural gas, our usage is projected to increase over time, which could result in a growing dependence on world supply. Our European and Asian allies are heavily dependent on imported natural gas. Therefore, we believe a debate should begin on how we can use the world's resources fairly to avoid penalizing those dependent on such resources, and to avoid the crisis that has generated the utilization of energy from Sudan by many of our allies like those in Europe and Asia while genocide is occurring in that country. 
   The creation of this cartel would pose a major and long-term disruption to the world's energy supply and convene a potential crisis that would significantly undermine America's interests. We cannot stand by and let yet another global oligopoly in the form of a gas OPEC to be established which would ultimately raise the cost of energy globally in an unfair manner; nor can we allow the major natural gas exporters, some of whom are current or potential adversaries of the United States, to develop a powerful political weapon to be used against us and our allies. I can only imagine what policy ends such a body would aim to achieve with its natural gas leverage. 
   Not only the United States would be impacted, but many of the developing nations and many of our friends and foes around the world. The world's natural resources belong to the world's people, and the fact that such a potential organization could deny that would be a catastrophe, particularly for those emerging developing nations. 
   This resolution puts on notice those countries seeking to establish a cartel in natural gas that the United States regards such efforts as a threat to the security of the entire world. This proposed cartel would, I believe, be part of a dangerous throwback through authoritarianism. It would create instability in the respective regions and, in Iran's case, to the world. No one wishes to see them commence an axis that would embolden their respective nations and their respective regimes. 
   I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
   MS. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Manzullo), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, and a cosponsor of this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, let me join in the debate that has taken somewhat of a slightly different turn that I think is enormously important. 
   This resolution speaks to the confusion that we have experienced when there is an organization that blocks others from benefiting from the world's natural resources. I am reminded that my colleague, Congressman NICK LAMPSON, and myself offered a few years ago an amendment to ask the Department of Interior to do an inventory of the resources that were in the gulf. We know that the gulf offers many different geographic regions. The exploration in those areas is somewhat controversial. But in the areas of Louisiana and Texas, it has been accepted and, frankly, has been one of the most safe approaches to the question of exploration of natural resources. 
   But I raised that question, having listened to a number of my colleagues, to say that a component to the idea of ensuring that the world's resources are spread fairly and are not held to penalize or punish is the acceptance of the resources in the region, in the gulf region. As we speak, there are a number of explorations and finds that are going on safely and environmentally safely, if you will, that are utilizing new finds in natural gas. 
   The idea of a cartel or an organization on natural gas again to penalize and punish unfairly those who don't have the resources certainly should be spoken to by this Congress. I also believe that the issue has to be one that is addressed by the respective heads of the agencies, the Secretary of Interior, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of State, to be able to address these questions on a diplomatic basis, so that, in essence, we can move this resolution and be able to stop this at its start. 
   I am glad that the names of Qatar, Trinidad and Canada were mentioned, because there are positive relationships that have been engendered. Nigeria has been a country that has been friendly to the United States and should be mentioned as well. 
   So we have a long way to go on disestablishing, of providing some break in the idea that when you organize, you organize to punish and to penalize; you organize to take away resources; you organize to gouge; you organize to undermine. I frankly believe that there are many ways of looking at this question of natural resources to be spread, and one of them, of course, is to improve the utilization of natural resources here in the United States and particularly the utilization of those in the gulf region. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me close by simply indicating we have many solutions that have been offered on the floor, including the full addressing of this resolution, but likely the recognition of natural gas resources right here in the United States of America. With that, I ask my colleagues to support H. Res. 500.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OPPOSING EFFORTS BY NATURAL GAS EXPORTING COUNTRIES TO ESTABLISH A CARTEL -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I would first like to commend our distinguished colleague, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, for introducing this important resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, the majority of our fellow Americans first learned about the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, during the energy crisis in the 1970s and came to associate the organization with it. According to many, the cartel involved in controlling petroleum prices has not served the interests of America and its allies well. 
   Recently, several leaders of the major exporters of natural gas have publicly advocated the establishment of an international cartel similar to that of OPEC, thus proposing to create a `Gas OPEC.' 
   Although the United States currently is largely self-sufficient in natural gas, our usage is projected to increase over time, which could result in a growing dependence on world supply. Our European and Asian allies are already heavily dependent on imported natural gas. 
   The creation of this cartel could pose a challenge to the balance in the world's energy supply which will require a strong diplomatic response by America. 
   It is not in America's interest to have control of the world's natural gas supply in the hands of a few countries. Nor can we allow the major natural gas exporters, some of whom are current or potential adversaries of the United States, to develop a powerful political weapon to be used against us and our allies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING UNTOUCHABILITY IN INDIA -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 139, ``Expressing the sense of the Congress that the United States should address the ongoing problem of untouchability in India.'' I believe that this is a very important issue that demands immediate attention, and I am very pleased to see it come before the House today. 
   I would first like to commend our distinguished colleague, Mr. Trent Franks of Arizona, for introducing this important resolution. 
   Many Americans would be shocked to learn that the caste system continues to have a substantial hold on Indian society. The caste system is the traditional system of social stratification on the Indian Subcontinent, in which social classes are defined by a number of endogamous, hereditary groups often termed as castes. Within a caste there exist exogamous groups known as gotras, the lineage or clan of a person. Roughly 20 million people in India are subject to cruel and inhuman treatment simply due to their caste. The terrible discrimination inflicted against the people known as Dalits and Tribals in India occurs solely because a person was born into a certain family. 13 Dalits are murdered every week; 3 Dalit women are raped every day, often with impunity; and a crime is committed against a Dalit every 18 minutes. 
   The Indian Constitution has formally outlawed caste-based discrimination, but the caste system still plays a major role in Indian society and politics. The leaders of independent India decided that India will be a democratic, socialist and secular country. According to this policy there is a separation between religion and state. Enforcement of the law must be strengthened, and this resolution seeks to state clearly the sense of the United States Congress in this regard. I look forward to working with the vibrant Indian-American community on this continued concern. 
   We must continue to raise this issue during our bilateral meetings with our good friends in the Government of India, especially during a time in which the United States-India relationship has entered into an unprecedented partnership. 
   It is our moral obligation to speak out about abuses of human rights wherever they take place. That is why this Congress must address the problem of the treatment of Dalits and Tribals in India. 
   I strongly support this resolution and urge my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2798, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Act of 2007. I would like to thank my colleague Mr. SHERMAN for introducing this important bipartisan legislation. 
   The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) has led by example in improving the social and economic conditions in some of the world's poorest countries. Today's bill not only reauthorizes OPIC but it improves upon both its strategy and oversight to make it the most responsible investor it can be. 
   OPIC has, since its inception in 1971, applied a private-sector model to a number of  important public-sector goals. By supporting targeted investments in a number of the world's poorest countries, OPIC extends the benefits of American projects to areas where a high level of risk might preclude investment by private companies. In this way, OPIC fills an important void left by the private financial sector. OPIC is essential and vital to the development of many countries, providing political risk insurance against the risks of inconvertibility, political violence, and expropriation allowing business to invest overseas and promote economic development in new and emerging markets. 
   For the past 35 years, OPIC has funded and insured the type of infrastructure building that no private company would do in some of the countries in which no company would otherwise go. OPIC has paved the way for roads, bridges, buildings, and energy facilities in war-torn and impoverished developing nations, and has 
   accomplished all this while turning a profit and building billions in reserves. 
   Remarkably, OPIC has itself turned a profit in every single year of its operations. It currently has reserves of over $5.3 billion, despite working in many of the world's least developed nations. 
   OPIC's sophisticated system involves reviewing applications and funding projects in countries where companies are least likely to get insurance coverage for the risk they are taking. In addition OPIC also provides financing through direct loans and loan guaranties. 
   With H.R. 2798, OPIC will become a new and improved agency. We live in a world that requires all of us to work together to fight terrorism, hunger and poverty, and for fundamental freedom and rights of every individual. This bill will allow OPIC to work in countries and with companies that provide greater protection for international workers rights. 
   This legislation has a number of vital safeguards, preventing funds from being used for destructive purposes. It strictly prevents funding for any project that damages the environment, and it ensures that it is not funding projects in nations with the most dangerous regimes in the world, including Iran. This bill prohibits investment in any state sponsor of terrorism, and charges OPIC with researching the subsidiaries of every company it funds to enforce that prohibition. Under the provisions of this bill, OPIC will be as transparent as possible. 
   I was happy to work with Congressman SHERMAN to include language in the Committee Report to ensure that Iraq is not given a blank check. Given the violent and chaotic situation in Iraq, and due to difficulties in dealing with an unstable Iraqi government, it is necessary to waive certain requirements normally mandatory for OPIC involvement in a country. While I believe that OPIC investment has the potential to be extremely valuable and beneficial for Iraqi reconstruction, I also believe it to be necessary for Iraq to demonstrate that it is making definitive and substantial steps toward the benchmarks set by the United States, including achieving political and national reconciliation. 
   For 35 years, OPIC has funded and insured infrastructure-building activities that would not otherwise be undertaken by the private sector. This legislation ensures that OPIC can continue its valuable work, building on its legacy of constructive involvement and further refining its strategies and oversight. I believe that OPIC deserves our support, and I strongly support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MOURNING THE PASSING OF FORMER FIRST LADY, LADY BIRD JOHNSON -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 553, which puts the House of Representatives on record in mourning the passing of Lady Bird Johnson, the former First Lady of the United States. Claudia Alta ``Lady Bird'' Taylor Johnson was the wife of U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson. Throughout her life, she was an advocate for beautification of the nation's cities and highways and conservation of natural resources. The former First Lady was a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   Lady Bird Johnson studied journalism and art at St. Mary's Episcopal School for Girls, a junior college in Dallas. She graduated with honors from the University of Texas with a Bachelor's degree in Arts in 1933 and a degree in Journalism in 1934--a time when women were hard pressed to have a career of their own, let alone a college education. Her goal was to become a reporter but her media career was deferred when a friend in Austin introduced her to Lyndon Baines Johnson, a young up-and-coming political hopeful. 
   On their first date, which was breakfast the next morning at the Driskill Hotel and a long drive in the country, Lyndon Johnson proposed. Lady Bird did not want to rush into marriage, but Lyndon Johnson was persistent and did not want to wait. The couple married on November 17, 1934, at Saint Mark's Episcopal Church in San Antonio, Texas. 
   Three years later, when Lyndon decided to run for Congress from Texas' 10th district in the Hill Country, Lady Bird provided the money to launch his campaign. She took $10,000 of her inheritance from her mother's estate to help start his political career. They had two daughters, Lynda (born in 1944), whose husband Charles S. Robb went on to become governor of Virginia and a U.S. Senator, and Luci (born in 1947), who married, firstly, Pat Nugent and, secondly, Ian Turpin. 
   As First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson started a capital beautification project (Society for a More Beautiful National Capital) to improve physical conditions in Washington, D.C., both for residents and tourists. Her efforts inspired similar programs throughout the country. She was also instrumental in promoting the Highway Beautification Act, which sought to beautify the nation's highway system by limiting billboards and by planting roadside areas. She  was also an advocate of the Head Start program. 
   Johnson's press secretary from 1963-1969 was Liz Carpenter, a fellow University of Texas alumna. Carpenter was the first professional newswoman to be press secretary to a First Lady, and she also served as Lady Bird's staff director. 
   In 1970, A White House Diary, Lady Bird Johnson's intimate, behind-the-scenes account of Lyndon Johnson's presidency from November 22, 1963 to January 20, 1969, was published. Beginning with the tragic assassination of John F. Kennedy, Mrs. Johnson 
   recorded the momentous events of ber times, including the Great Society's War on Poverty, the national civil rights and social protest movements, her own activism on behalf of the environment, and the Vietnam War. Indeed, Lady Bird Johnson and her husband were champions of civil rights and were instrumental in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. I know that her comforting words and her encouragement were part of the decision making of President Johnson as he made some critical decisions during some difficult times regarding the civil rights of individuals who had been discriminated against for most of the history of this country. Long out of print, the paperback edition of A White House Diary will be available again through the University of Texas Press in Fall 2007. 
   She was acquainted with a long span of fellow First Ladies, from Eleanor Roosevelt to Laura Bush, and was protected by the United States Secret Service for forty-four years, longer than anyone else in history. 
   Lady Bird Johnson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Gerald Ford on January 10, 1977. The citation for her medal read: 
   ``One of America's great First Ladies, she claimed her own place in the hearts and history of the American people. In councils of power or in homes of the poor, she made government human with her unique compassion and her grace, warmth and wisdom. Her leadership transformed the American landscape and preserved its natural beauty as a national treasure.'' 
   Johnson then received the Congressional Gold Medal on May 8, 1984. In addition to the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, her name has been lent to the Lady Bird Johnson Park on Columbia Island in Washington, D.C., which was founded as a result of her efforts as First Lady to beautify the capital. 
   After former President Johnson died in 1973, Lady Bird Johnson remained in the public eye, honoring her husband and other Presidents. In the 1970s, she focused her attention on the Austin riverfront area through her involvement in the Town Lake Beautification Project. From 1971 to 1978, Johnson served on the board of regents for the University of Texas System. 
   On December 22, 1982 (her 70th birthday), she and actress Helen Hayes founded the National Wildflower Research Center, a nonprofit organization devoted to preserving and reintroducing native plants in planned landscapes, located east of Austin, Texas. The Center opened a new facility southwest of Austin on La Crosse Avenue in 1994. It was officially renamed The Lady Bird Johnson Wildtlower Center in 1998. On June 20, 2006, The University of Texas at Austin announced plans to incorporate the 279 acre Wildflower Center into the University. 
   For twenty years Lady Bird Johnson spent her summers on the island of Martha's Vineyard renting the home of Charles Guggeinheim for many of those years. She said she had greatly appreciated the island's natural beauty and flowers. 
   On October 13, 2006, Lady Bird Johnson made a rare public appearance at the renovation announcement of the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum. Sitting in a wheelchair and showing signs of recent health problems, Lady Bird seemed engaged and alert, and clapped along with those present at the ceremony. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the last year the state of Texas has lost several of its greatest sons and daughters: Governor Ann Richards; Senator and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen; columnist and progressive icon Molly Ivins; and now Lady Bird Johnson. 
   The Lone Star State mourns the loss of our favorite daughter and it will be grieving for some time. But the memory of Lady Bird Johnson will never be forgotten so long as the flowers bloom in the capital city of our nation and along the highways and byways of the several states, especially her beloved Texas. 
   I strongly support H. Res. 553 and urge my colleagues to do the same.  
   Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 535) commending David Ray Ritcheson, a survivor of one of the most horrific hate crimes in the history of Texas, and recognizing his efforts in promoting Federal legislation to combat hate crimes. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is with celebration and recognition that I rise today to honor and pay tribute to David Ray Ritcheson, first 17, and, in the loss of his life, only 18, yet an American hero, a teenager who experienced harshness in his life, but yet out of his courage, tenacity and spirit we stand here on the floor of the House today. 
   I rise in strong support of H. Res. 535, which honors the short life, but big contributions of David Ray Ritcheson, a victim, as I said earlier, of a horrific hate crime, who became an exceptionally effective advocate for Federal hate crimes legislation. 
   Over the years I have been privileged to take the floor many times to speak on behalf of my constituents and those who live in the greater Houston-Harris County area. On those occasions my heart has filled with joy on the knowledge that so many people entrusted me with the honor of giving voice to their hopes and aspirations. But as I rise today, my heart is enormously heavy, for I have the sad duty of informing the House of the tragic death of David Ray Ritcheson, a Texas teenager, and as I've said earlier, experienced and was a victim of a horrible hate crime only at the age of 17, who went on to become an effective advocate for Federal hate crimes legislation. 
   To his parents, to his attorney Mr. Leon, for their spirit, his wonderful family, his brothers and sisters, all who showed the great love and tenacity and courage to stand by David, I call them the stand-by-David family. 
   This tragedy should serve as a wake-up call to the Nation of the need to redouble our efforts to prevent hate crimes by juveniles, which I believe is, in the long run, the best and most effective way of eliminating the scourge of hate-motivated crimes from our society. 
   I have long believed, and research confirms, that if a person does not acquire a proclivity to hate as a juvenile, he or she is not likely to be motivated to commit crimes out of hate as an adult. But once a child or juvenile has learned to hate, it is a short step to learning and liking to act out of hatred. 
   We will have, I hope soon, coming to this floor a bill named after David. Many in the community have asked that H.R. 1592, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, be likewise named after him. You wonder why. It is because of the outstanding courage that this young man has shown. 
   I remember meeting with him in the offices of his attorney, Carlos Leon, and his family members way back in 2006. He was in the midst of several of his surgeries that had to be implemented or had to be done in order to help cure him. Quiet, determined, smiling, generous in his time, we spoke about what he could do and how he could support legislation to turn things around. I believe that that courage exudes today on the floor of the House. 
   A year ago last April, the people of Harris County and those in and around my congressional district saw just how easy and how dangerous it is for young people to commit a crime of hate. In a case that drew national attention, 16-year-old David Ray Ritcheson, a Mexican American, was severely assaulted on April 23, 2006, by two youths while attending a party in the Houston suburb of Spring, Texas. One of his teen attackers, a skinhead, yelled ethnic slurs and kicked a pipe in an inappropriate place, severely damaging his internal organs and leaving him in the hospital for 3 months and 8 days, almost all of it in critical care. 
   For the supposed crime of allegedly kissing a white girl, this Hispanic young man was punched unconscious, kicked in the head, suffered 17 cigarette burns sadistically inflicted that still scar his body. His assailants poured bleach on his face and body and then assaulted him with a pipe taken from a patio umbrella. He was left lying unconscious and unattended in the back yard of a house for more than 8 hours. He has endured more than 30 operations to restore his appearance and regain the normal use of his bodily functions. 
   Might I say to you that he was the cause and the inspiration behind the passage of H.R. 1592. And I just want to share with my colleagues this young man's picture, along with his attorney. He was a young man who came here with a business suit on because he meant business. We honor him today with a resolution that acknowledges his life. 
   In addition, I will soon be introducing additional legislation intended to fill a big gap in current hate crimes prevention. And we must do more to assist the victims of hate crimes and their families recover from their physical, emotional and psychological wounds. 
   My legislation will authorize programs to provide psychological and emotional support services and appropriate economic assistance to the victims of hate crimes and their families. The legislation will focus on three main areas: counseling, prevention, and economic support. 
   Let me just say, in closing, that I indicated that it is with a heavy heart that I stand on the floor today. It is certainly with great celebration that I acknowledge to the world and to America, the youth of America, the name of David Ray Ritcheson, someone who, in essence, sacrificed his life so that America might be better, sacrificed his life so that those of us who want to be able to preach love, opportunity and quality maybe, sadly, will have a message of joy out of his living, and that is that you can move to move hearts and minds, and that we can provide America with a better moral compass and legal system to prevent hate crimes in America.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 535, which honors the short life but big contributions of David Ray Ritcheson, a victim of a horrific hate crime who became an exceptionally effective advocate for Federal hate crimes legislation. 
   Over the years I have been privileged to take the floor many times to speak on behalf of my constituents in the Eighteenth Congressional district of Texas. On those occasions my heart was filled with joy in the knowledge that so many people entrusted me with the honor of giving voice to their hopes and aspirations. 
   But as I rise today, my heart is heavy. I have the sad duty of informing the House of the tragic death of David Ray Ritcheson, a Texas teenager and victim of a horrible hate crime, who went on to become an effective advocate for Federal hate crimes legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, this tragedy should serve as a wakeup call to the Nation of the need to redouble our efforts to prevent hate crimes by juveniles, which I believe is in the long run the best and most effective way of eliminating the scourge of hate motivated crimes from our society. 
   I have long believed, and research confirms, that if a person does not acquire a proclivity to hate as a juvenile, he or she is not likely to be motivated to commit crimes out of hate as an adult. But once a child or juvenile has learned to hate, it is a short step to learning and liking to act out that hatred. 
   A year ago last April, the people of Harris County, Texas, and in my congressional district, saw just how easy and how dangerous it is for young people to commit a crime out of hate. 
   In a case that drew national attention, 16-year-old David Ray Ritcheson, a Mexican-American, was severely assaulted on April 23, 2006, by two youths while attending a party in the Houston suburb of Spring, Texas. One of his teenage attackers, a skinhead, yelled ethnic slurs and kicked a pipe up his rectum, severely damaging his internal organs and leaving him in the hospital for 3 months and 8 days--almost all of it in critical care. For the supposed crime of allegedly kissing a white girl, this Hispanic young man was punched unconscious, kicked in the head, suffered 17 cigarette burns sadistically inflicted that still scar his body. His assailants poured bleach on his face and body, and then assaulted with a pipe taken from a patio umbrella. He was left lying unconscious and unattended in the back yard of a house for more than 8 hours. He has endured more than 30 operations to restore his appearance and regain the normal use of his bodily functions.  
   Mr. Speaker, no one deserves to be tortured and victimized like David Ray Ritcheson was simply because he is of a different nationality, or race, or religion, or ethnic group, or sexual orientation or preference. It is for that reason that I introduced the David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, H.R. 254, earlier this year, key provisions of which were incorporated into H.R. 1592, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007. For example, my bill increased the penalties to 10 years in prison for any person whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, willfully causes bodily injury to any person or, through the use of fire, a firearm, or an explosive device, attempts to cause bodily injury to any person, because of the actual or perceived race, color, religion, or national origin of any person. Also, H.R. 1592 incorporated another key component of my hate crimes prevention bill: the establishment of a grants program administered by the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice to award grants, in accordance with such regulations as the Attorney General may prescribe, to State, local, or tribal programs designed to combat hate crimes committed by juveniles. 
   I will soon be introducing additional legislation intended to fill a big gap in the current hate crimes prevention regime. We must and can do more to assist the victims of hate crimes and their families recover from their physical, emotional, and psychological wounds. 
   My legislation will authorize programs to provide psychological, emotional support services and appropriate economic assistance to the victims of hate crimes and their families. The legislation will focus on three main areas: counseling; prevention; and economic support. 
   Hate Crime victims lose their jobs at least in part because of the impact of hate crime violence and lack of financial and economic support during recovery. By giving hate crime victims economic and financial support, Congress makes it more likely that employees who are victims of hate crimes could stay at work while they deal with the violence or promptly return to work if they have to take temporary leave. Therefore hate crime victims must be provided access to: (1) Healthcare support including counseling and therapy to prevent in the future severe depression, violent outbreaks, suicide; (2) construction and personnel cost for shelters and hate crime support centers; (3) direct services providers; (4) healthcare insurance for counseling and therapy; (5) hotline services; and (6) short- and long-term individual counseling and support groups for hate crime victims and their families. 
   Since prevention is always better than cure, my legislation also seeks to prevent violent hate crime attacks before it happens. The legislation will provide funding for outreach and educational programs to raise awareness against racist and discriminatory beliefs. 
   Specifically, it will lead to: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me take an opportunity to acknowledge Albert and Laticia Galvin, the parents of David Ray Ritcheson. I mention them, their strength and their sense of dedication. 
   I also wanted to acknowledge the outpouring of support by the Members of Congress, members of the House Judiciary Committee and our local community. We came together, people from all segments of the community, to honor him in his passing, but also to commit ourselves to ridding our community of hate. Representatives from the NAACP and LULAC, faith leaders, elected officials, all of them put aside differences, as my good friend from Indiana has indicated, partisan differences, and realized that hate is really not the definition of America. 
   And if I might refresh the memories of my colleagues, just a few weeks ago we stood on the floor to acknowledge July Fourth, the Independence Day for America, again a day of joy. But the points of accolades for this Nation really focused not only on the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, which gives us the freedom of association, due process so that your rights are protected, but we're reminded of the Declaration of Independence. And it indicated that we all are created equal, with certain inalienable rights of life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
   That's all that David sought in his young life, and I hope that as we move legislation forward, in the other body and here, on stomping out hate crimes, we will be reminded of this young life, not only David, but his mother and father, Albert and Laticia Galvin, who, if you met them, you would know how David was able to be so strong and so determined. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, as this bill is intended to do, let me dwell on the life of David Ray Ritcheson and how much he has contributed to moving this country forward. I would like to read just a portion of his statement from his own words in the Judiciary Committee speaking about the experience of his tragedy: 
   ``After burning me in the center of the forehead, the skinhead attacker was heard saying that now I looked like an Indian with a red dot on my forehead. Moreover, the witnesses to the attack recall the two attackers calling me a `wetback' and a `spic' as they continued to beat me as I lay unconscious. Once the attack came to an end, I was dragged to the rear of the backyard and left for dead.'' 
   The bill that David was so articulate in helping us move forward provides resources for our smaller communities in order to ensure that if Federal resources are needed, that nexus, that connection, that assistance would be provided. Therefore, it is clear that David's testimony helped assist rural communities. 
   I cite, for example, another tragic incident that occurred in a rural area, and maybe the county in that area might not have been able to move forward. This bill, however, is already out of the House. So our tribute today really focuses on the courage which David provided to move that bill forward. 
   In Wyoming, Matthew Shepard was in a rural area. It was a rural area in Jasper, Texas, with Mr. James Byrd. So we know that the bill that has passed the House truly would provide assistance to those communities that would ask for it if such a tragedy occurred in their community. Again, Mr. Speaker, simply if they asked for it. 
   I want to emphasize that this is about David, so let me share with you his words. These are the words that he offered to the Judiciary Committee: ``It has been a blessing to know that the most terrible day of my life may help put another human face on the campaign to enact a much needed law such as H.R. 1592. I can assure you from this day forward I will do whatever I can to help America become our great country, the United States of America a hate-free place to live.'' These are David's words. 
   As we move forward in trying to capture what his life was truly about, this young, friendly, cheerful student at Klein Collins High School in the Houston suburb of Spring, Texas, popular and a talented football athlete, who was loved and admired by his family and friends, we want to ensure that, as we go forward, if such a dastardly act would happen again, we focus on the family. 
   Mr. Speaker, we would like to see health care support, including supportive counseling and therapy to prevent future severe depression; construction and personnel costs for shelters and hate crime support centers; direct service providers who are trained to try and help those who have been victims of hate crimes; health care insurance for counseling and therapy; hotline services, so for those who witness hate crimes or other acts, we would be able to provide an immediate source of information for them to report what happened; short- and long-term individual counseling and support  groups for hate crime victims and their families. 
   This is a time to acknowledge this former running back and freshman homecoming prince, who spent more than 3 months in the hospital. But at the same time, it is a time of celebration. That is what this resolution stands for. Let me thank the list of cosponsors who have provided their affirmation of the importance of David's life. 
   Mr. Speaker, with that, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman from Indiana for his courtesies. That is the note which I will end on, is a note of courage. 
   As we look at this young man, and I am going to do something quite unusual, Mr. Pence, the family is watching, and I would hope that that would be the spirit of this resolution, simply to acknowledge the courage of David Ray Ritcheson, this talented young man, as I have said, Laticia and Albert Galvan's child, the brother of so many siblings, that they would understand what it took to come into the Judiciary Committee room. 
   We would like to thank the cosponsors of this legislation, and I would like them to have a lasting impression of this distinguished young man.     
   The courage, fortitude, the work he has done has enlightened many. As Mr. Pence said, we can have a number of debates and questions about the underlying issue, but the above-lying issue is simply a resolution thanking a young man who has lost his life in the face of an unspeakable tragedy. And we are all committed, whether it is a moral question or whether it is by legislative initiative, we abhor hatred. This Nation was not founded to promote hatred, although many of us came to this Nation differently. 
   So I would simply ask my colleagues to join me. And I yield to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Pence) for an inquiry. His family is watching, and I hope this can be perceived, this is an unlikely question to you, be perceived simply as a resolution, making no further statement, on the celebration of his life. We would like to call for a vote, and we would like to have your support. I have heard that you are willing to support this on that basis, and I would like to commend this to my colleagues simply on that basis. This is a resolution honoring a young man who has called to the attention of all of us the idea of the fact that we all abhor hatred of any kind. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING DAVID RAY RITCHESON AND RECOGNIZING HIS EFFORTS IN PROMOTING FEDERAL LEGISLATION TO COMBAT HATE CRIMES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you for your kindness. 
   Let me bring my remarks to a close by reading some of the words I read before. I will end with these words: ``It has been a blessing to know,'' and this was testimony in the House Judiciary Committee ``that the most terrible day of my life may help put another human face on the tragedy,'' and these are my words, of hate crimes and hatred. 
   Let me thank the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Conyers) for his leadership. Let me thank the ranking member, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith), as well as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Crime and the chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime Mr. Scott. All of them have been generous, as has the staff of the Judiciary Committee, in helping us pay  tribute to David Ray Ritcheson. May he rest in peace. God bless his family, and God bless America for being the Nation that abhors hate and recognizes this beautiful young man.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MODIFYING DEADLINE RELATING TO ELECTION BY INDIAN TRIBES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 3095) to amend the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 to modify a deadline relating to a certain election by Indian tribes. 
   The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MODIFYING DEADLINE RELATING TO ELECTION BY INDIAN TRIBES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   First, let me thank Mr. Kildee for moving this legislation and thank him for his leadership. Two years ago, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act was enacted. The act was a major advance in our Nation's efforts to protect our children from sexual and other violent crimes, to prevent child pornography, and to make the Internet safer for our sons and daughters. 
   Among its provisions, the act includes a mandate that each tribe either  affirmatively opt-in to the new sex offender requirements enacted as part of that act, or cede its authority for enforcement to the State in which the tribe is located. The act requires all tribes register their intentions by July 27, 2007. 
   While initially this deadline appeared to be reasonable, the tribes' ability to comply with it has been made virtually impossible in light of the fact that the Justice Department has taken much longer than expected to issue the necessary guidelines that will help implement the new requirements under the Adam Walsh Act. 
   In fact, we are advised that these guidelines will not be finalized until after the registration deadline. Under these circumstances, it only stands to reason that the tribes should be given additional time to make the necessary certification. 
   H.R. 3095, offered by Mr. Kildee, addresses this problem by simply extending the registration deadline for one year until July 27, 2008. Without this brief extension, the sovereign authority of countless tribal lands will be substantially undermined. 
   I commend my colleagues, from Michigan Mr. Kildee and Mr. Renzi of Arizona, for their leadership on this measure. H.R. 3095 goes a long way toward protecting the sovereign authority that historically has bestowed upon tribal lands. 
   Accordingly, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan, commonsense proposal.  
   Two years ago, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act was enacted. The act was a major advance in our Nation's efforts to protect our children from sexual and other violent crimes, to prevent child pornography, and to make the Internet safer for our sons and daughters. 
   Among its provisions, the act includes a mandate that each tribe either affirmatively opt-in to the new sex offender requirements enacted as part of that act, or cede its authority for enforcement to the State in which the tribe is located. The act requires all tribes to register their intentions by July 27, 2007. 
   While initially this deadline appeared to be reasonable, the tribes' ability to comply with it has been made virtually impossible in light of the fact that the Justice Department has taken much longer than expected to issue the necessary guidelines that will help implement the new requirements under the Adam Walsh Act. 
   In fact, we are advised that these guidelines will not be finalized until after the registration deadline. Under these circumstances, it only stands to reason that the tribes should be given additional time to make the necessary certification. 
   H.R. 3095 addresses this problem by simply extending the registration deadline for 1 year until July 27, 2008. Without this brief extension, the sovereign authority of countless tribal lands will be substantially undermined. 
   I commend my colleagues from Michigan (Mr. Kildee) and Arizona (Mr. Renzi) for their leadership on this measure. H.R. 3095 goes a long way toward protecting the sovereign authority that historically has been bestowed upon tribal lands. 
   Accordingly, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan, commonsense proposal. 
   H.R. 3095 offers a commonsense solution that respects the historically recognized sovereignty of our Nation's tribes while not compromising the critical objectives of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act with respect to protecting our Nation's children from sexual and other violent crimes. 
   This bipartisan measure warrants our support.  
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MODIFYING DEADLINE RELATING TO ELECTION BY INDIAN TRIBES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to yield to the author of this legislation, along with his cosponsor, Mr. Renzi, distinguished member of the House Education Committee, subcommittee chairman and a great leader on Native American issues in this Congress and in America, Mr. Kildee of Michigan for 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MODIFYING DEADLINE RELATING TO ELECTION BY INDIAN TRIBES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume. 
   This is a very wise and important judgment that has been made by this legislation. H.R. 3095 offers a commonsense solution that respects the historically recognized sovereignty of our Nation's tribes, while not compromising the critical objectives of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act with respect to protecting our Nation children's from sexual and other violent crimes. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this bipartisan measure. It is deserving of  our support. I would ask that this measure be supported. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING A CHILD OF A DECEASED MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 175) expressing the sense of Congress that courts with fiduciary responsibility for a child of a deceased member of the Armed Forces who receives a death gratuity payment under section 1477 of title 10, United States Code, should take into consideration the expression of clear intent of the member regarding the distribution of funds on behalf of the child. 
   The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING A CHILD OF A DECEASED MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, House Concurrent Resolution 175 deals with a tragic situation where a member of the Armed Forces dies leaving a surviving child but no spouse. This resolution expresses a sense of Congress that State courts with fiduciary responsibility for the child of a deceased member of our Armed Forces should take into consideration the express desires of the fallen soldier as to how funds related to the soldier's service should be distributed on behalf of a surviving child. 
   When an American soldier makes the ultimate sacrifice, not only does our country suffer a terrible loss, but that soldier's family suffers directly. Among many other concerns, a family faces a number of immediate financial challenges; and, unfortunately, these challenges come in the midst of their grief. These financial and emotional hardships are compounded when the deceased servicemember was a single parent. 
   I thank the mover of the bill for his leadership and the cosponsors, thank the members of the Judiciary Committee, Chairman Conyers and the ranking member Mr. Smith. 
   This bill helps the surviving family members of a fallen soldier better cope with these financial hardships. Congress established a death gratuity intended to address some of these expenditures families must cover during the traumatic period following a loved one's death. 
   The current system administering the death gratuity, however, often makes it difficult for those left with the responsibility of caring for a fallen soldier's child to access these funds. A death gratuity payable to a minor child is placed in trust until the child gains majority status. In the interim, the relevant State court has discretion to release funds for the care and needs of the child. 
   The problem here is that the Armed Forces personnel who are single parents currently have no formal way to designate, for the purposes of the death gratuity, a caretaker for their minor child in the event of a servicemember's death. 
   It is our duty to do all we can to ensure that the children left behind are cared for as their parent requested. When servicemembers make it clear  who they would like to care for their children in the event of their death, those wishes should be an important factor for the court to consider. 
   It is almost like the tragedy of 9/11 and a bill that I authored after those parents are deceased to ensure that the children of the 9/11 tragedy, the orphan children, would have their benefits promoted and supported and rendered first. This legislation, and rightly so, wants to give parents the opportunity to designate who should be the custodian for these funds so children can be taken care of first and foremost. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.  
   Mr. Speaker, House Concurrent Resolution 175 deals with a tragic situation where a deceased member of the Armed Forces leaves a surviving child, but no spouse. 
   This resolution simply expresses the sense of Congress that State courts--with fiduciary responsibility for the child of a deceased member of our Armed Forces--should take into consideration the expressed desires of the fallen soldier as to how funds related to the soldier's service should be distributed on behalf of the surviving child. 
   When an American soldier makes the ultimate sacrifice, not only does our country suffer a terrible loss, but that soldier's family suffers directly. Among many other concerns, the family faces a number of immediate financial challenges, and unfortunately, these challenges come in the midst of their grief. These financial and emotional hardships are compounded when the deceased service member was a single parent. 
   To help the surviving family members of a fallen soldier better cope with these financial hardships, Congress established a death gratuity intended to address some of the expenditure's families must cover during the traumatic period following a loved one's death. 
   The current system administering the death gratuity, however, often makes it difficult for those left with the responsibility of caring for a fallen soldier's child to access these funds. A death gratuity payable to a minor child is placed in trust until the child gains majority status. In the interim, the relevant State court has discretion to release funds for the care and needs of the child. 
   The problem here is that Armed Forces personnel who are single parents currently have no formal way to designate, for the purposes of the death gratuity, a caretaker for their minor child in the event of the service member's death. 
   It is our duty to do all we can to ensure that the children left behind are cared for as their parent requested. When service members make it clear who they would like to care for their children in the event of their death, these wishes should be an important factor for the court to consider. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I reserve the balance of my time. 
   H. Con. Res. 175 will help the children of fallen soldiers by providing necessary guidance to the courts about how to treat the expressed desires of a deceased service member when it comes to distribution of the death gratuity. I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution so that the wishes of soldiers are given proper respect and consideration.  
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING A CHILD OF A DECEASED MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, allow me to rise and yield myself such time as I may consume to thank Mr. Latham for his sensitivity and leadership. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me acknowledge that there are men and women as we speak on the front lines in the battle for their Nation. Many in Iraq and Afghanistan but many lose their lives elsewhere around the world in the Nation's uniform. 
   This is an instructive and important legislative initiative, but can we imagine being lost in battle, a fallen soldier who's not able to provide for his or her family or his child? H. Con. Res. 175 and the backdrop of those who are now losing their lives in battle will help the children of these fallen soldiers by providing necessary guidance to the courts about how to treat the expressed desires of a deceased servicemember when it comes to the distribution of a death gratuity. 
   Hopefully, the constituent of Mr. Latham and many others will find refuge and relief. It is certainly not the Nation's desire to leave them wanting and destitute. 
   This particular bill provides comfort to those who need comfort and financial support for those who are suffering. 
   I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution so the wishes of the soldiers are given proper respect and consideration and a grateful Nation is truly grateful. 
   Let me also thank the ranking member, Mr. Smith; the full committee chair, Mr. Conyers; Mr. Berman and Mr. Coble of which this particular amendment and legislation has come through. And we ask that the legislation be passed with great support in this body. 
   I ask my colleagues to support it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Education and Labor Committee and thank him for his leadership. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is a biblical story about the children of Israel in the desert seeking the promised land for 40 years. I would like to tell my good friend that there are American workers who are deserving and in need of an increase in the minimum wage, and we know that for 51 years we have had the lowest valued minimum wage in America. It is clear that the minimum wage increase would help reverse the trend of declining real wages for low-wage workers, American workers, and that, between 1979 and 1989, the minimum wage lost 31 percent of its real value, American workers. 
   What about the waitress who stopped me in a restaurant and said, When are you going to raise the minimum wage? A woman raising children who, with the minimum wage, will be able to have an opportunity to get a car loan to get a car to get her children to school or to the doctor or to be able to do the things that we in America enjoy doing, being with our family, providing them an opportunity? 
   This is a moral issue. I ask my colleagues to support the increase in the minimum wage for Americans across America.  
   I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2, the ``Fair Minimum Wage Act.'' With the adoption of this bill, the House of Representatives will take the first step in making good on its commitment to working-class Americans that one of the first concerns of the Congress is the well-being of ordinary Americans who work hard, play by the rules, and are struggling to get by through no fault of their own. We Democrats promised to chart a new direction for America if the voters entrusted us with the majority. They did and with our votes today in support of H.R. 2, we are making good on our promise. 
   Mr. Speaker, before I discuss the importance of this bill in detail, I wish to commend Chairman MILLER, Speaker PELOSI, Majority Leader HOYER, Majority Whip CLYBURN, and the rest of the Democratic leadership, as well as my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus, which was led so ably last Congress by Congressman WATT and is now led Congresswoman KILPATRICK. Because of their resolve and visionary leadership, more than 13 million workers will soon receive a long overdue raise. What difference an election makes! 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE PRESIDENT'S TROOP SURGE IS TANTAMOUNT TO AN ESCALATION OF THE IRAQ WAR AND WILL NOT MAKE AMERICA OR IRAQ SAFER -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank you for your leadership and presence during this important debate and discussion. 
   I almost don't know where to start. Because when you begin to discuss the issue of Iraq, you must be very cautious. 
   One, the constitutional premise is that the President is the Commander-in-Chief. The immediate inquiries of the press of how are you going to translate the vote of the American people into action, you are just the Congress; the Commander-in-Chief has every right to command the troops. And might I say that this President has commanded the troops. As I visited Afghanistan and Iraq, every one of those soldiers has stood up and said, I was willing to come and follow the orders of my Commander-in-Chief. I respect them, thank them, thank their families. 
   That is why I feel a special obligation to begin to renew the energy and the outrage that many of us expressed during the debate of 2002 when we had hoped that we would have secured  enough votes to oppose the attack on Iraq. 
   But I am not here to recapture past failures or successes. What I am here to say is that it is imperative, it is the demand that the American people have made. Not that we follow opinion polls. For if you look at the opinion polls, 57 percent of the American people are dissatisfied with the way Iraq has been handled. Larger numbers than that are not supporting the escalating of the war. 
   So many might say, as I imagine the Commander-in-Chief will say tonight, I am not here to follow opinion polls. I do say that any elected person has a right to define their own anchor. 
   But what we are here to do is do right by the American people. We are here to do right by the 22,000 maimed soldiers who have returned who are in the Nation's hospitals, who we have not seen, with amputated arms and legs, those that I have seen in MASH units with imploded brains because of the IEDs. We are here to do right by the 3,000 plus who have died and the families who are mourning their loss. We are here to do right by the soldiers who have said, send me. 
   I believe that the plan that the President will offer tonight is a misdirected plan. It is a wrong plan. And let me tell you why. Upping or plussing or surging the troops should have happened 3 years ago. This is a war that has lasted longer than World War II. The idea of more troops without a mission is not effective. 
   Listen to the generals who have testified before our committees. Listen to the generals who have now been given early retirement, who did not agree with the plussing up. Why is it that the President has often said, I will listen to my generals, and all of a sudden these generals have been deposed? 
   And then, of course, the question is a realistic question. Twenty thousand troops for the city of Baghdad, now captured by the civil war? Not 20,000 troops to help us in Mosul or Tikrit, but 20,000 troops to go to Baghdad, a city like Mexico City, or a city that is like another, a huge teeming city, 25 million plus. And our soldiers will now be the police officers knocking on doors looking to drag people out of their houses. That is not a military operation. 
   And then, of course, let me say to you that we did an operation upsurge or plus from June to October 2006. The purpose was to secure Baghdad. But as the Baker Commission has indicated, and I hope the President has read, this is a sectarian civil war. There is a need for diplomacy instead of or in front of a military action. 
   I passed an amendment that said that the redeployment or the number of times that you have been redeployed should be taken into consideration before you are being called up. None of that will occur. 
   We don't have 20,000 troops; and our soldiers have been over two times, three times, four times, more than any occurrence in Vietnam. In order to get the 20,000, we must redeploy soldiers who have been on the battlefield, who are battle worn, not individuals who refuse to serve their country but are battle worn and battle torn. 
   What are we for? I am for the rebuilding of the military. I am for the replenishing of our equipment. I want us to be strong on defense. But I am not for an escalating war that has no mission and no end. 
   We must have political diplomacy. We must not send our soldiers. We must have a new direction.  
   Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to speak on the most critical issue facing our country, the war in Iraq. This misguided, mismanaged, and costly debacle was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 2003 despite the opposition of me and 125 other Members of the House. To date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history. 
   The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America was led by a great Commander-in-Chief who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job. 
   Mr. Speaker, I say with sadness that we have not that same quality of leadership throughout the conduct of the Iraq war. The results, not surprisingly, have been disastrous. To date, the war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,015 brave service, men and women, 115 in December and 13 in the first 9 days of this month. More than 22,000 Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   Based on media reports, tonight President Bush will not be offering any new strategy for success in Iraq, just an increase in force levels of 20,000 American troops. This reported plan will not provide lasting security for Iraqis. It is not what the American people have asked for, nor what the American military needs. It will impose excessive and unwarranted burdens on military personnel and their families. 
   Mr. Speaker, the architects of the fiasco in Iraq would have us believe that ``surging'' at least 20,000 more soldiers into Baghdad and nearby Anbar 
   province is a change in military strategy that America must embrace or face future terrorist attacks on American soil. Nothing could be further from the truth, as we learned last year when the ``surge'' idea first surfaced among neoconservatives. 
   Mr. Speaker, the troop surge the President will announce tonight is not new and, judging from history, will not work. It will only succeed in putting more American troops in harm's way for no good reason and without any strategic advantage. Troop surges have been tried several times in the past. The success of these surges is, to put it charitably, has been underwhelming. Let's briefly review the record: 
   1. Operation Together Forward, (June-October 2006): In June the Bush administration announced a new plan for securing Baghdad by increasing the presence of Iraqi Security Forces. That plan failed, so in July the White House announced that additional American troops would be sent into Baghdad. By October, a U.S. military spokesman, Gen. William Caldwell, acknowledged that the operation and troop increase was a failure and had ``not met our overall expectations of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.'' [CNN, 12/19/06. Washington Post, 7/26/06. Brookings Institution, 12/21/06.] 
   2. Elections and Constitutional Referendum (September-December 2005): In the fall of 2005 the Bush administration increased troop levels by 22,000, making a total of 160,000 American troops in Iraq around the constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the elections went off without major violence these escalations had little long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American troops. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org] 
   3. Constitutional Elections and Fallujah (November 2004-March 2005): As part of an effort to improve counterinsurgency operations after the Fallujah offensive in November 2004 and to increase security before the January 2005 constitutional elections U.S. forces were increased by 12,000 to 150,000. Again there was no long-term security impact. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. New York Times, 12/2/04.] 
   4. Massive Troop Rotations (December 2003-April 2004): As part of a massive rotation of 250,000 troops in the winter and spring of 2004, troop levels in Iraq were raised from 122,000 to 137,000. 
   Yet, the increase did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadr's Najaf uprising and April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American forces. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org. USA Today, 3/4/04] 
   Mr. Speaker, stemming the chaos in Iraq, however, requires more than opposition to military escalation. It requires us to make hard choices. Our domestic national security, in fact, rests on redeploying our military force from Iraq in order to build a more secure Middle East and continue to fight against global terrorist networks elsewhere in the world. Strategic redeployment of our armed forces in order to rebuild our nation's fighting capabilities and renew our critical fight in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaeda is not just an alternative strategy. It's a strategic imperative. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is past time for a new direction that can lead to success in Iraq. We cannot wait any longer. Too many Americans and Iraqis are dying who could otherwise be saved. 
   I believe the time has come to debate, adopt, and implement the Murtha Plan for strategic redeployment. I am not talking about ``immediate withdrawal,'' ``cutting and running,'' or surrendering to terrorists, as the architects of the failed Administration Iraq policy like to claim. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq forever or the foreseeable future. 
   I am talking about a strategic redeployment of troops that: 
   Reduces U.S. troops in Iraq to 60,000 within six months, and to zero by the end of 2007, while redeploying troops to Afghanistan, Kuwait, and the Persian Gulf. Engages in diplomacy to resolve the conflict within Iraq by convening a Geneva Peace Conference modeled on the Dayton Accords. Establishes a Gulf Security initiative to deal with the aftermath of  U.S. redeployment from Iraq and the growing nuclear capabilities of Iran. Puts Iraq's reconstruction back on track with targeted international funds. Counters extremist Islamic ideology around the globe through longterm efforts to support the creation of democratic institutions and press freedoms. 
   As the Center for American Progress documents in its last quarterly report (October 24, 2006), the benefits of strategic redeployment are significant: 
   Restore the strength of U.S. ground troops. Exercise a strategic shift to meet global threats from Islamic extremists. Prevent U.S. troops from being caught in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. Avert mass sectarian and ethnic cleansing in Iraq. Provide time for Iraq's elected leaders to strike a power-sharing agreement. Empower Iraq's security forces to take control. Get Iraqis fighting to end the occupation to lay down their arms. 
   Motivate the U.N., global, and regional powers to become more involved in Iraq. Give the U.S. the moral, political, and military power to deal with Iran's attempt to develop nuclear weapons. Prevent an outbreak of isolationism in the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, rather than surging militarily for the third time in a year, the president should surge diplomatically. A further military escalation would simply mean repeating a failed strategy. A diplomatic surge would involve appointing an individual with the stature of a former secretary of state, such as Colin Powell or Madeleine Albright, as a special envoy. This person would be charged with getting all six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait--involved more constructively in stabilizing Iraq. These countries are already involved in a bilateral, self-interested and disorganized way. 
   While their interests and ours are not identical, none of these countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees streaming into their countries. 
   The high-profile envoy would also address the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the role of Hezbollah and Syria in Lebanon, and Iran's rising influence in the region. The aim would not be necessarily to solve these problems, but to prevent them from getting worse and to show the Arab and Muslim world that we share their concerns about the problems in this region. 
   Mr. Speaker, the President's plan has not worked. Doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result is, as we all know, a definition of insanity. It is time to try something new. It is time for change. It is time for a new direction.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WHY WE CAN'T WAIT -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in this week of recognition and admiration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., I am reminded of a book he wrote and the words ``why we can't wait'' which emphasized the urgency of the civil rights movement for the then Negro in the United States of America. 
   Today we rise to indicate to America we cannot wait for an increase in the minimum wage. We cannot wait for that waitress who asked me when she would be able to provide more for her children and have the opportunity for the American dream. 
   By raising the minimum wage today, we impact 7 million women, 3.4 million parents, and we raise it from $5.15 to $7.25 over 2 years. In 9 years, 10 years, we have not raised the minimum wage. 
   I say this in the backdrop of the President's speech tonight on Iraq, because that theme follows why we can't wait for a successful policy in Iraq, and why we can't wait to have the President change directions to ensure that we eliminate that failed policy. 
   We are going to stand for a new direction in Iraq, saving our soldiers and bringing them home with dignity. And we are going to stand for working families in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COLLEGE STUDENT RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, allow me to take a moment to thank Chairman Miller and the Democratic leadership for the powerful groundwork that they are laying to provide relief to the Nation's college students and aspiring college students seeking an opportunity. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have heard a number of Horatio Alger stories here on the floor of the House, representing the lives of so many of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, and I salute them. So many of us are first-generation college students who have had the opportunity to receive a degree in the Nation's institutions of higher learning. 
   But let me cite for my friends and colleagues the landscape of the 21st century when China is producing more engineers in 1 month than America is producing in 1 year. It is a landscape that my friends from the other side of the aisle created, for over the last couple of years, Pell Grants have had no meaningful increase in the last 5 years. Last year, the maximum Pell Grant was worth $900 less in inflation-adjusted terms than it was in 1975 and 1976. Since 2001, Pell Grants have only increased by $300. Yes, more students are getting Pell Grants, Mr. Speaker, because more are eligible because they are poor. 
   So there has been no educational agenda, but I am delighted that we are going to fix it for Texas. In the name of my schools, Texas Southern University, the University of Houston, Rice University, Houston Baptist University, Houston Community College, North Harris Montgomery Community College and University of St. Thomas, University of Houston-Downtown, we will finally, for the 208,000 students in Texas, bring down the cost of student interest rates some $4,000 over the next 5 years. This is relief, and this is opportunity. 
   We need to move quickly to pass this legislation to go to the Senate and, yes, to have the President's signature. This is long overdue, and this is a meaningful response to students who are seeking an equal opportunity. 
   I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 5. It is the right thing to do. It is long overdue.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5, the College Student Relief Act of 2007. This bill does much more than ease the burden of student loans for college graduates--it will make the American dream possible for the children of more than 5.5 million working and middle-class Americans. 
   Mr. Speaker, in 21st century America, a college education is critical for individual success and the strength of our nation. Higher education is associated with better health, greater wealth and more vibrant civic participation, as well national economic competitiveness in today's global environment. As the need for a college degree has grown, however, so has the cost of obtaining that education. The result is rising student debt. 
   About 5.5 million students borrow subsidized Stafford loans every year. Of those borrowers, nearly 3.3 million attend four-year public or private nonprofit institutions. The vast majority of these borrowers come from low- and middle-income families. According to the Congressional Research Service, 75% of traditional-aged borrowers with subsidized Stafford loans come from families with incomes below $67,374. The median income for an American family of four is $65,000. 
   H.R. 5 CUTS INTEREST RATES IN HALF 
   Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5 because it cuts the fixed interest rate on subsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over the next five years. Loans originated during the intervening five years would be set at fixed interest rates of 6.12 percent in 2007-2008, 5.44 percent in 2008-2009, 4.76 percent in 2009-2010, 4.08 percent in 2010-2011, and 3.4 percent from 2011 forward. After graduation, students could consolidate their loans into one loan at the weighted average of the interest rates of their various loans. 
   Mr. Speaker, by lowering interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans, Congress can save college graduates thousands of dollars over the life of their loans. For example: 
   The average four-year college student starting school in 2007 with subsidized Stafford loans would save about $2,280 over the life of his or her loans under the proposed legislation. 
   When the interest rate cut is fully phased in, the average four-year college student starting school in 2011 with subsidized Stafford loans would save $4,420 over the life of his or her loans. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5 because it will bring relief to the more than 205,000 student loan borrowers in my state of Texas. Today, the average subsidized Stafford Loan debt for a 4-year graduate of a Texas public college is more $14,230. Under H.R. 5, the savings for the average student starting school in Texas this year will be $2,350 over the life of his or her Stafford Loan and more than $4,500 for a student starting college in Texas in 2011. 
   Last year, the Republican-led Congress cut $12 billion in federal student aid to give tax cuts to the wealthy. H.R. 5 would serve to give just a bit of that back by cutting interest rates on student loans in half by 2011. It may seem like just a small step, but reducing the interest  rate on student loans from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent will do a lot for many Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING MUHAMMAD ALI ON HIS 65TH BIRTHDAY -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 58, which honors Muhammad Ali on the occasion of his 65th birthday. Muhammad Ali, who transformed the sport of boxing with his unparalleled physical gifts, social commentary, and poetry, is one of the world's most beloved athletes. Muhammad Ali has been a fixture on the world stage since the 1960, when he won the gold medal at the 1960 Olympics in Tokyo. He would go on to win such legendary bouts as ``The Rumble in the Jungle'' against George Foreman, and ``The Thrilla in Manila'' against ``Smoking Joe'' Frazier. 
   Since his retirement in 1981, Muhammad Ali has engaged in many humanitarian endeavors, including a 1990 journey to Iraq to negotiate the release of 15 hostages. Muhammad Ali may be out of the ring but interest in him has not waned, 3 billion television viewers around the world watched him light the torch that opened the Olympic Games in Atlanta in 1996. In 1984 Ali was stricken with Parkinson's disease. However true to form, Ali has not let his illness stop him from being free to do what he wants. 
   Never has a sports figure inspired so many people in so many different ways. Ali has shown that a sport can be more than entertainment; it can also be a cultural event with the power to change social values. Muhammad Ali is one of the most recognized sportsmen of all time. His legacy is one that inspires both in the ring and through his humanitarian work. 
   Outside of the ring Ali was a tremendously important figure and ally in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s. Ali refused to fight in the Vietnam War due to his religion and because he said, ``Ain't no Viet Cong done nothing to me.'' He has won countless awards for his humanitarian efforts, including the Medal of Freedom. If anyone is deserving of the accolades that are bestowed on him, Muhammad Ali is certainly that person. 
   The Muhammad Ali International Centre opened in Ali's home town of Louisville, Kentucky in November 2005. The Centre holds exhibits and provides learning initiatives. It was established to represent and promote the values by which Muhammad Ali has lived his life: confidence, dedication, respect, compassion, charity, and spirituality. It is hoped that the Centre will provide those that visit the enlightenment and ability to become the greatest they can be. Ali's wife Lonnie said of the initiative: ``the Muhammad Ali Centre is all about searching for common ground and establishing peace.'' 
   On behalf of the citizens of the State of Texas and my constituents of the 18th congressional district I would like to join my colleagues in honoring Muhammad Ali, a global humanitarian, on the occasion of his 65th birthday and extend best wishes to him and his family. Muhammad Ali reminds us all that ``learning to love yourself is the greatest love of all.'' 
   Happy Birthday, champ! As you often said after your many victories, you are the ``Greatest of all time!'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WORKING FOR A SAFE AND SECURE IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I certainly agree with my colleague from Texas. We must really approach violence, wherever it is, and I thank him for his words. 
   Mr. Speaker, so many of us as Members have confronted families who have lost loved ones on the battlefields of Iraq. We realize that not one of those fallen soldiers would in any way step away from their duty. So today I rise to thank them. 
   But because of their commitment to their Nation, I believe as policy makers we have a commitment to them, and it is imperative that this body and the other body not engage in nonbinding resolutions, when the American people have asked us to bring our troops home, when the President of the United States has not begun to consider alternatives such as political diplomacy, when there is no recognition that the Congress is an equal branch of government and can in fact cease the funding. 
   We must have a new direction. We must have a safe and secure Iraq. We can work for both, but we must have the respect and mutuality of the three branches of government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REPEALING CERTAIN LAWS PERTAINING TO THE VIRGIN ISLANDS -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 57, to repeal certain provisions of the Federal law passed 70 years ago limiting the Virgin Islands' authority to assess and collect its property taxes. I thank the Delegate from the Virgin Islands, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, for bringing this legislation to the attention of the House. 
   This outdated law, enacted in 1936, results in the imposition of high property taxes that could cause many residents of the Virgin Islands to lose their homes. The local government does not have the capacity to protect them from these federally imposed taxes, nor should it have to. The policies which the statute was originally designed to address are no longer an issue; it is now entirely unnecessary. 
   In fact, the Revised Organic Act of 1954, which was enacted to grant the government of the Virgin Islands the power to assess, administer and collect real property taxes, was thought to have repealed the statute. However, the 1936 statute remained in effect, putting at risk our long-standing policies to support and protect economic development, social welfare, and homeownership in the Virgin Islands. No other State or territory in the United States is subject to such Federal restrictions. 
   I look forward to seeing H.R. 57 passed to provide relief to the good people of the Virgin Islands from this outdated law. I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to discuss H.R. 5658, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2009 which has many important provisions to help our military personnel and their families. I want to thank my colleague Congressman SKELTON for his leadership on the House Armed Services Committee in bringing a bill to the floor that not only protects but supports our military and our veterans. 
   Samuel Adams, who was known as the Father of the American Revolution, stated ``All might be free if they valued freedom, and defended it as they should.'' Well, while most of us value freedom many of us do not risk our lives for it the way our men and women in the armed forces do on a daily basis. 
   This defense bill reflects our commitment to support the men and women who fight to secure not only our citizen's freedom but the freedom of others. This bill will provide the necessary resources to protect the American people and our national interests at home and abroad. The Armed Services committee has provided for military readiness; taking care of our troops and their families; increasing focus on the war in Afghanistan; and improving interagency cooperation, oversight, and accountability in this year's defense authorization bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss my vote on H.R. 5658, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. 
   I applaud Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for the work they have done. In fact, I quote Samuel Adams, who said, ``All might be free if they valued freedom and defended it as they should.'' 
   We applaud the young men of the United States military, and I believe this bill that has $2 billion toward unfunded readiness initiatives is a good bill. I believe the $800 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment makes it a good bill, $650 million to keep defense facilities in good working order makes it a good bill, the 3.9 percent increase in raise for all servicemembers, the health provisions. The bill establishes a career intermission pilot program to allow a servicemember to be released from active duty for a maximum of 3 years to focus on personal or professional goals outside the military. I believe it is important to note that there are new procedures for interrogation in the field. 
   And yet I did offer an amendment that would have helped us end the war in Iraq by recounting the fact that all the tasks for ending the war have been accomplished by the military. That amendment was not accepted. And as well, I offered an amendment that would have celebrated all of our troops from Afghanistan and Iraq when they come home. 
   The fact that this bill provides $70 billion for the Iraq War, Mr. Speaker, I could not vote for the bill. I voted ``no.'' I explain this so that all might know there are good provisions in this bill, but I cannot support the war ever again. I voted ``no'' on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRIBUTE TO OUR FALLEN SOLDIERS -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this coming Monday, Americans will gather to do what so many families wish they did not have to do. That is to mourn the dead who have fallen in battle. 
   Certainly there will be many who will come simply to honor them as heroes, but many of the families will have the fresh memories of young men and women who have recently fallen in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
   I rise to take this opportunity on behalf of the 18th Congressional District, of the people of Houston, Texas, to acknowledge and respect and pay tribute to the soldiers of this Nation that have fallen in battle throughout the centuries. 
   For it is, in fact, true that our freedoms are vested in the willingness of young men and women who take the oath to give the ultimate sacrifice so that our Constitution and our values may be preserved. And I take their oath very seriously and believe it is important that, as Members of the United States Congress and the Commander in Chief, that when we send Americans into battle, it must be based upon thought and prayers and reason. 
   But this coming Monday, we will embrace these families, some who are freshly mourning, others who have long memories. We will commemorate the missing in action, the POWs, all who have suffered at the hands of the violence of others. 
   In Houston, Texas, we commemorate Memorial Day at out Veterans Cemetery. It is in my congressional district. And I have over the years enjoyed the fellowship with the families and the sacred spirit of what occurs. This Memorial Day I will place a memorial wreathe in Europe in honor of those troops who have fallen. My staff will represent me at the memorial commemoration. But they will also be present and my community will be present on Sunday as they place small white crosses to acknowledge the number of soldiers who have now died in Iraq. 
   Memorial Day is a time for the Nation to come together. It is not an accusatory time. It is to recognize everyone's fallen life equally, with appreciation and deep gratitude. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, I have risen today to assure those families who mourn for the recent loss, those who are mourning of memories past, that America remains a grateful Nation. And on behalf of those of the 18th Congressional District, to the fallen soldiers and those families who mourn, I offer them my deepest and most sincere debt of gratitude and sympathy. 
   Let this Memorial Day be a reminder of the preciousness of life, the soldiers who serve us, but as well the ultimate cost that is paid in war. And let it remind us that, yes, we have valiant heroes, but that we as a Nation should continue to work as hard as we can to achieve peace not only amongst us but around the world. 
   May God bless those who have fallen, God bless their families, and God bless America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE WAR IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this afternoon we saw a varying level of discourse and debate over an enormously important and I might say singularly important issue that is facing the American public, and that is the question of the war in Iraq. 
   No matter how you touch the hearts and minds of Americans, whether or  not they suggest that this Congress and this President is not paying enough attention to the domestic concerns, woven into the crisis of where we stand today is the conflict in Iraq. 
   I think Americans understand Afghanistan more than we might think they do. They know that this Nation was attacked on September 11, 2001. They know that when the Nation is attacked, the Commander in Chief, leaders of this government have the responsibility of defending the honor and the security of America. They see Afghanistan as defending that honor and that security. They know that the Taliban, Osama bin Laden, those who collaborated were the basis of the attack against the World Trade towers and other sites in this country. They know that our lives have changed because of the horrific tragedy of 9/11. And they are willing to accept that. They faced up against new laws that seem to undermine their liberties, and within reason they are willing to acknowledge that things must change. I am grateful, however, that there are those of us who understand that the greatest success of a terrorist is to cause you to terrorize yourself. So many of us have asked to modify and assess the PATRIOT Act. We are looking to redo the FISA law that deals with electronic surveillance. But mostly in debating this question, Americans understand that their lives have changed. 
   But the Iraq War continues to be a questioning action by this administration. All of us have tried to give respect to the basis and the reason of this direction that this government took in the fall of 2002. I, for one, was very hesitant to speak about a war for oil. I recognize that there might have been many deliberations that have occurred that might have caused this administration to make this unfortunate leap of preemptive attack. 
   I have come full circle now, however, and I am enormously disappointed in the thought process and the respect not given to the American people. For the American people, over 56 percent, want this war to end, want these troops to come home, want to see a troop reduction. 
   So this debate today was not a frivolous debate. And the leadership of the Democratic Caucus, the leadership of this Congress took great pains to try to address this in a fair and dignified manner. They worked very hard to bring a concise document that spoke to the safety and security of the troops, the respect of the troops, the acknowledgment of their hard work; but yet to insist that a plan be laid out by this administration to reduce the number of troops in Iraq while at the same time ensuring that if there are outstanding conflicts, firefights, terrorists to be fought, that we'd have the troops on the ground. 
   I believe that this has been the most misdirected war that history will record. I believe that it beats out the Civil War, the War of 1812, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, Persian Gulf. For any of those who opposed those wars, and I was not there for all of them, if there was any opposition for reasons that I don't know, this has to be the single most dangerous and devastating action that this Nation could have ever taken. There is no sense for it. There is no basis for it. But if there was a case that you could make, you could make the case that the military has done every single thing that it was asked to do. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, that is why I was moved to write the Military Success Act of 2007. It indicates that Congress recognizes that the military, in the invasion of Iraq, as authorized by a resolution given to the President in 2002, going into Baghdad was probably one of the best executed military operations in modern history, alongside of the Persian Gulf. The armed services successfully toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein. 
   And as I close, it lists a whole series of successes. And then it indicates that every single aspect of the 2002 resolution has been complied with. And, therefore, that means that the task of the 2002 resolution has ended. And it calls then for the troops to come home, for them to be acknowledged, for them to be given free, with no attachment, $5,000 for each returning troop from Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, this was a difficult debate, but I think and know that we made the right decision. But we could do even more. We can affirm that these troops need to come home, and we can celebrate them for the heroes that they are. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4156, ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the American people get it. Over 50 percent of the American people believe that we should now begin a reduction of our troops. 
   As I listened here on the floor of the house, and I listened to my good friends on the other side of the aisle claiming the me-me's and the I-I's, I hear no one talking about victory. 
   Victory in what sense? So that we can pound our chests and brag about what this Congress and this President has done? 
   We're talking about lives here. We're talking about lives. And I am sick and tired of listening to people bragging about who can claim a victory. 
   Well, my belief is that the soldiers on the battlefield, the most deadliest year that we've ever had, 2006, we buried more than we could ever imagine. Those soldiers have already claimed victory. They took Fallujah. They took Baghdad. 
   And my concern is why have we not championed the victory of those soldiers? Why haven't we welcomed them home, given them accolades because they have been victorious? 
   Someone on the other side has not read this bill. This bill allows for a redeployment in an orderly manner, and it demands that the President use these dollars to redeploy. 
   I am not going to trample on the graves of dead soldiers and continue a war that has no end. That government has the ability in Iraq to diplomatically deal with democracy. We have died so they can deal with democracy. 
   It is time to end this war now and to bring our soldiers home with the dignity and victory they deserve. 
   Right now, in the Nation's hospitals, we are seeing the results of his victory. We are seeing soldiers with brain injury, soldiers with no limbs. And we have a broken health care system that can't even address the question of those soldiers with posttraumatic stress brain injury and otherwise. 
   My voice is gone, but I am tired of this question of victory because I believe, and I have a bill, and I ask my good friend from California to join it, the Military Success Act of 2007 that chronicles the victories of our soldiers. 
   We can bring them home with dignity. I am not going to tolerate one more dead body. And it is time to end this war and end it now.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4156, introduced by my colleague, Mr. Obey. I would like to thank him for his ongoing leadership as chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, and on this important issue in particular. 
   The legislation we are considering today provides our troops with the resources they need, but it does not give the President the blank check he has asked for to fund an endless combat operation in Iraq. Instead of his additional $200 billion, we are considering a $50 billion package, which institutes a redeployment timeline, as well as other critical directives designed to transition our role in Iraq and bring our troops home. 
   Madam Speaker, the funds provided by this legislation are, crucially, tied to a requirement for the immediate start of the redeployment of U.S. forces. It sets December 15, 2008, as the target date for the completion of the redeployment, and requires redeployment to begin within 30 days of enactment. 
   As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi Government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations. 
   For this reason, I extremely please to have worked with the Democratic leadership to include language recognizing the extraordinary achievements of our men and women in uniform. Paragraph 2 of Title I reads, ``the performance of United States military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan should be commended, their courage and sacrifice have been exceptional, and when they come home, their service should be recognized appropriately.'' I believe that the inclusion of this language makes it clear that we are proud of the accomplishments of our troops, and we look forward to commending them as they return safely home.  
   I also worked with the Leadership to include the language in Paragraph 3 of Title 1. This paragraph reads, ``the primary purpose 
   of funds made available by this Act should be to transition the mission of United States Armed Forces in Iraq and undertake their redeployment, and not to extend or prolong the war.'' This language makes explicit that this legislation is providing funding for the safe and responsible redeployment of our troops, not for the continuation of combat operations. 
   This legislation protects our troops, by providing them with the funding they need to safely and successfully redeploy from Iraq. It also prohibits the deployment of forces to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped. In addition, this legislation includes an extension to all U.S. Government agencies and personnel of the current prohibition in the Army Field Manual against the use of certain interrogation techniques. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bill contains important language that changes the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to diplomatic and force protection, targeted counterterrorism operations, and limited support to Iraqi security forces. I firmly believe that we must make diplomacy and statecraft tools of the first, rather than the last, resort. We must seek constructive engagement with Iraq, its neighbors, and the rest of the international community, as we work to bring resolution to this calamitous conflict that has already gone on far too long. 
   Because of my deeply held belief that we must commend our military for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq, I have introduced legislation, H.R. 4020, with the support of a number of my colleagues, entitled the ``Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' This legislation recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation from a grateful Nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have already expended 3,500 American lives and $400 billion in taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We have occupied the country for over 4 years. And our President continues to push a strategy devoid of clear direction and visible targets, while rejecting congressional calls to solidify an exit strategy. 
   Last November, the American people clearly stated that they did not want to see an endless conflict in Iraq; they went to the polls and elected a new, Democratic Congress to lead our Nation out of Iraq. I am proud to be a member of the Congressional class that listens and adheres to the will of the American people, as we did when both houses of Congress approved Iraq Supplemental bills that instituted a timetable for U.S. withdrawal. We need a new direction, because we owe our brave, fighting men and women so much more. Washington made a mistake in going to war. It is time for politicians to admit that mistake and fix it before any more lives are lost. 
   This Congress will not, as the previous, Republican, Congress did, continue to rubber stamp what we believe to be an ill-conceived war. As we continue to receive reports on the situation in Iraq, it is important that we continue to look forward, to the future of Iraq beyond a U.S. military occupation. 
   Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in administering a democratic election and electing a democratic government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the American people. 
   Our Nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 3,810 American soldiers have died. In addition, more than 27,660 have been wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. June, July, and August have marked the bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. casualties in Iraq are 62 percent higher this year than at this time in 2006. This misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent in American history. In addition, the United States is spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second. 
   For this huge sum of money, we could have repaired the more than 70,000 bridges across America rated structurally deficient, $188 billion, potentially averting the tragedy that occurred August 1 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. We could have rebuilt the levees in New Orleans, $50 billion, protecting that city from future hurricanes that could bring Katrina-like destruction upon the city. We could have provided all U.S. public safety officials with interoperable communication equipment, $10 billion, allowing them to effectively communicate in the event of an emergency, and we could have paid for screening all air cargo on passenger planes for the next 10 years, $3.6 billion. And, we could have enrolled 1.4 million additional children in Head Start programs, $10 billion. Instead of funding increased death and destruction in Iraq, we could have spent hard-earned taxpayer dollars on important progress here at home. 
   The Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am proud to be a member, has recently heard a string of reports from military and civilian officials about the political, military, social, and economic situation in Iraq. Two weeks ago, the Government Accountability Office, GAO, informed the Congress that the Iraqi government has met only 3 of the 18 legislative, economic, and security benchmarks. Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military 
   involvement, the Iraqi Government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their country. 
   President Bush rationalized his surge, over opposition by myself and other House Democrats, by arguing it would give the Iraqi government ``the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical areas,'' bringing about reconciliation between warring factions, Sunni and Shia. However, non-partisan assessments, such as last week's GAO report, have illustrated that escalating U.S. military involvement in Iraq is instead hindering that nation's ability to move beyond the devastation of war and death, to build a successful new government, and to create a stable and secure environment. In the 7 months since the surge began, increased American military presence has not been able to end the relentless cycles of sectarian violence that continue to plague Iraq. Nor have larger numbers of U.S. troops been successful in unifying and strengthening the Iraqi Government. 
   Instead, the security situation continues to deteriorate. Sectarian violence remains high, and even the Bush administration has noted the unsatisfactory progress toward political reconciliation. The Sunni-led insurgency continues, with insurgents conducting increasingly complex and well-coordinated attacks. The August 2007 National Intelligence Estimate cited ongoing violence, stating, ``the level of overall violence, including attacks on and casualties among civilians, remain high; Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled.'' The report went on to note that al-Qaeda in Iraq, AQI, ``retains the ability to conduct high-profile attacks,'' and ``Iraqi political leaders remain unable to govern effectively.'' 
   The ever-increasing sectarian violence is causing immense daily challenges for Iraqis. Millions have been displaced, and an Iraqi Red Crescent Organization has reported an increase of nearly 630,000 internally displaced persons from February 2007 to July 2007. The same organization predicts an additional 80,000 to 100,000 persons are displaced each month. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has estimated that 1.8 million Iraqis are now refugees, with an additional 40,000 to 50,000 fleeing to neighboring countries each month. Iraq has become a humanitarian disaster, and one that continues to get worse every day. 
   The United States military is a skilled and highly proficient organization, and where there are large numbers of U.S. troops, it is unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of violence. However, it is our responsibility to take a longer-term view. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi Government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not seen a demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi Government. 
   In addition, evidence suggests that not only is increased U.S. military presence in Iraq not making that nation more secure, it may also be threatening our national security by damaging our ability to respond to real threats to our own homeland. The recently released video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate 
   that President Bush has not caught this international outlaw, nor brought him to justice. Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror to the war of his choice in Iraq. 
   The former Chairman and Vice Chairman of the 9/11 Commission, Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, share this view. In a recent op-ed, Kean and Hamilton note that our own actions have contributed to a rise of radicalization and rage in the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write that ``no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, treasure, and support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than the war in Iraq. It  has become a powerful recruiting and training tool for al-Qaeda.'' 
   Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for some time now, advocated for congressional legislation declaring a military victory in Iraq, and recognizing the success of our military. Our brave troops have completed the task we set for them; it is time now to bring them home. Our next steps should not be a continuing escalation of military involvement, but instead a diplomatic surge. 
   Democrats in Congress will not continue to rubber stamp the President's ill-conceived war effort. Last November, the American people spoke loudly and clearly, demanding a new direction to U.S. foreign policy, and we here in Congress are committed to seeing that change be brought about. We are working to see the extensive funds currently being spent to sustain the war in Iraq go to important domestic programs and to securing our homeland against real and imminent threats. 
   President Bush and Vice President CHENEY have been given numerous chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress to straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is pure fantasy to imagine that President Bush's military surge has created the necessary safety and security to meet economic, legislative, and security benchmarks. It is time for a new strategy, a new plan that will encourage Iraqis to take charge of their own destiny, seek constructive and sustained regional engagement, and substitute the ill-advised military surge for a thoughtful diplomatic one. It is time to be realistic and pragmatic, to recognize that our troops achieved what they were initially sent in for and that continued U.S. military engagement is not bringing about the desired results. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation provides our brave soldiers in Iraq with the resources they need, while requiring that the President begin to redeploy our troops. It keeps our soldiers safe, and it keeps our Nation safe. By bringing an end to this conflict, this Democratic Congress is making significant strides forward toward protecting and securing America. 
   I strongly urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting today's legislation, and in giving the troops the resources they need to safely redeploy from Iraq.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3074, TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on the previous motion to recommit vote, in light of the new extraordinary and difficult and strenuous voting time, I was unavoidably delayed in an Iraq briefing. If I was present, I would have voted ``nay'' on the motion to recommit on the Transportation-HUD appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RULES OF THE HOUSE -- (House of Representatives - January 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Title II of H.R. 6, the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 110th Congress. With the adoption of this title, we begin to make good on our pledge to ``drain the swamp'' and end the ``culture of corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is critically important that we adopt the ethics rules contained in Title II because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq, for Administration cronies like Halliburton. 
   Ethics and legal scandals plagued the Republican Congress--from the resignation of Reps. Tom DeLay and Duke Cunningham to  the admission of illegal or improper conduct by Reps. Bob Ney and Mark Foley. 
   The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, a former congressman pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--accepting all-expense-paid trips to play golf in Scotland and accepting meals, sports and concert tickets, while providing legislative favors for Abramoff's clients. 
   But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into signed conference reports in the dead of night. 
   The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exits polls indicated that 74 percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very important issue in their choice at the polls. 
   Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is why as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate of this critical election, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics reform package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend Chairman SLAUGHTER and the members of the Rules Committee for their excellent work in preparing this ethics reform package. The reforms contained in the package are tough but not nearly too tough for persons elected to represent the interests of the 600,000 constituents in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar bipartisan lobbying and government reform proposals were debated and passed by the House and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to reconcile the two versions. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support each element of the ethics reform package, which bans gifts from lobbyists; bans lobbyist financed trips and travel; requires pre-approval and certification for travel financed by outside groups; 
   prohibits use of corporate aircraft; ends the notorious K Street Project; and mandates ethics training for all House employees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TOM LANTOS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1451. This is important. It is a nonpartisan human rights commission that will have a universal code of human rights which is imperative. This human rights commission will look at charges of human rights violations according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that will certainly show countries and individuals who choose to violate what every individual has a right to: their civil liberties. I urge my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 1451 because it establishes a commission on human rights that creates a way for Congress to promote, defend, and advocate internationally recognized human rights. 
   This resolution is timely because there have been numerous violations of civil rights all over the world. Egregious human rights violations are occurring in countries such as Sudan, Pakistan, Colombia, and China every day. 
   Sudan's own president is wanted by the ICC for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. This is the first time the ICC Prosecutor has named a sitting head of state, and the first time it has accused a suspect of genocide. There are also allegations of attacks on peacekeepers by rebels in Darfur. There are also numerous abuses of women in Pakistan where Dr. Shazia was a 32-year-old Pakistani physician who worked at a hospital run by Pakistan Petroleum Limited, a state-owned natural gas supplier in Baluchistan, a remote area of Pakistan. On January 2, 2005, Dr. Shazia was attacked and raped in her home, a guarded compound, by an intruder who broke in at night while she was sleeping. She reported the crime although told to stay quiet. Doctors sedated her and flew her to a psychiatric hospital in Karachi. The government forced Dr. Shazia to sign a statement saying that she had been given government help and that she wanted to close the matter. 
   China is also a country that commits numerous civil rights violations. It has a 1982 constitution that guarantees freedom of speech, but the Chinese Government often uses the subversion of state power clause to imprison those who are critical of the government. The PRC is known for its intolerance of organized dissent toward the government. Dissident groups are routinely arrested and imprisoned, often for long periods of time and without trial. The Chinese Government also limits religious freedom by requiring that members of the Communist Party be atheists. 
   Between June 2006 and June 2007, at least 280 Colombian civilians were extra judicially killed by Colombian security forces and many of them were subsequently presented by those forces as guerrillas killed in conflict. And this year human rights groups have continued to document extrajudicial killings by some Colombian military forces. 
   As a civilized nation, we cannot remain silent at outrages such as these. We must give voice to those who cannot on their own, and we must scream at the offense to human rights and settle for nothing less than full and complete justice. The United States Congress must show the violators that their actions will not be condoned or ignored. We must come together and take action on the atrocities occurring in the international community. 
   The human rights commission will promote human rights education, serve as a medium for dialogue on human rights issues, and promote the realization of human rights obligations. Promoting human rights education is vital for administering justice to those who have been wronged and this bill proposes to do just that. We need to know what is wrong in order to help those who have been wronged. 
   Establishing a human rights commission is important in establishing a united American foreign policy that consistently stands for human dignity around the world. We need to use this commission to find the best course of action to encourage countries from around the world to adopt principles for the protection of human rights.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (BREAST CANCER PATIENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I speak today on an important bill that I believe in, H.R. 758, The Breast Cancer Patient Protect Action of 2007. This bill is important to people facing this horrible disease, and it is time that we protect those who are the most vulnerable among us. 
   Patients who have breast cancer face a very tough road ahead. The medical realities are enough to frighten anyone and these patients face financial realities as well. With an ever corporatizing of the American health care system, it's more of an in and out process. Even those with excellent healthcare are pushed out of hospitals with great speed. Worse yet, those who do survive face an uphill battle making sure they can get the follow up they need to assure a long and healthy life. 
   This bill will show support for those with breast cancer that they are not alone. Worried  that while they are recovering from major surgery, their insurance company will look at the bottom line, and no longer pay for hospital stays. This bill will require insurance companies to pay for the stays as long as the doctor thinks is necessary. As I am sure all of my colleagues know, you cannot get an insurance company to do anything without regulation. 
   This legislation will also remove the doctor's biggest challenge, needing insurer's permission before doing what they believe is medically necessary. There is nothing worse about our healthcare system today then the thought that it's not your doctor making the decisions for your care, but it's the insurance company that pays him or her. It's an unfortunate reality that doctors must choose between caring for their patients and keeping their practice and families afloat. This bill will at least give these doctors back the right to have the option of always putting their patients first. 
   Last, this bill also provides for secondary consultations by specialists in the appropriate medical fields to confirm or refute a diagnosis of cancer. While the vast majority of cancer diagnoses are correct, with the small numbers that are ``false positives'' this bill will allow for patients to double check their status before undergoing very expensive and dangerous treatment. 
   I am reminded of the American political commentator, journalist, and author, Molly Ivins of Texas. Diagnosed with breast cancer when she was 55, she didn't look down on her situation and feel sorry for herself. She instead looked at it as an opportunity saying, ``One of the things I said was that I had been in great hopes I would become a better person as a result of confronting my own mortality, but it actually never happened. I didn't become a better person.'' After two mastectomies, Molly toured around the country speaking out about breast cancer awareness, tragically she later died of the disease. 
   Almost everyone has had, or knows someone who has breast cancer, it's our mothers and daughters, sisters and friends who face this disease, and it's time we honor them, by protecing those who come after them. I also pay tribute to the work of Sister's Network in supporting this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, we need to make sure that doctors are making the right diagnosis, that they are making the choices in care and not the insurance companies and that the health and care of these patients are in the right hands. I urge passage of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES GIFT OF LIFE MEDAL ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I speak today on a very close subject to my heart, House Resolution 6950, a bill to establish the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Gift of Life Medal for organ donors and the family of organ donors. Congresswoman Tubbs Jones was a rare breed of person who not only talked the talk, but walked the walk. 
   Tragedy struck Congress a few weeks ago when Congresswoman Tubbs Jones was taken from us. This brought attention to an issue of vital importance to her and the Nation. Organ transplantation is the greatest gift a person can give. While a majority of them happen while both the donor and the recipient are alive, a large number happen after death. Unfortunately these organs, such as the heart, lung, liver, and kidney, among others, are very hard to come by. In the Congresswoman's home State, only 53 percent of the population was a registered organ donor. This is a good start but we must go further. 
   When a loved one dies, it is never a happy moment; experiences like this always bring sadness and sorrow. When that loved one's death can serve as a beacon of hope for another, it does not lessen the sadness; it allows the family to have a good, if small, memory of the loss of their loved one. When Congresswoman Tubbs Jones passed away, we were all deeply saddened but I think I can speak for more than a few of my fellow Members of Congress when I express the joy and pride I felt when I learned that after years of advocating for organ transplantation, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones left all of her vital organs to those in need. 
   Organ transplantation needs to increase in this country. With currently over 100,000 people on the transplant list waiting for organs, we can not afford to wait to act any longer. Currently, African Americans make up about 12 percent of the Nation's population and about 12 percent of the patients who donate. However, of all the patients requiring a transplant, 23 percent of them are African American. This disparity is a growing epidemic and must be resolved. 
   This bill will do three wonderful things and help the cause that the Congresswoman fought for in all her years serving Ohio. One, it will honor the life of an unwavering advocate of transplant. Naming the medal after her will show all those who come later, that this was a woman deep with passion about this important issue. It will shine a light on a life that helped shine a light on others. 
   Second, this bill will honor those, who like the Congresswoman, have showed their true patriotism to their fellow man or woman and shared with them the greatest gift. These medals are a way that the Federal Government, on behalf of its people, to begin to thank Americans who commit themselves to being organ donors. 
   Lastly this bill will help raise awareness for minority health issues. It was found that African Americans make up a disproportional number of patients requiring transplants and that they wait, on average, longer to receive an organ. When they do finally receive this opportunity, they are sicker and the success rate is not what it could be. We can, and must, do more. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can do something to help the millions of men and women around the world waiting for organ transplants. We should also move quickly to honor those who have already given the greatest gift there is. As Albert Einstein once said, ``Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile'' and no one exemplified this better than Stephanie Tubbs Jones. I urge my colleagues to pass this bill to honor her.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF BOMBINGS OF EMBASSIES IN KENYA AND TANZANIA -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 1461, ``Recognizing the Tenth Anniversary of the terrorist bombings of the United States embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Kenya and Tanzania who lives were lost or whose were injured as a result of these attacks which is introduced by my distinguished colleague Representative Scott. This legislation is important to ensure that we remember those who lost their lives and those lives were affected by these tragic and horrendous bombings. 
   GENERAL
   On August 7, 1998, approximately 4,000 people were injured in the Nairobi bombing and 85 injured in Dar es Salaam. These attacks which killed hundreds of people, first brought international attention to Osama Bin Laden and his al Qaeda terrorist network, and stand out as one of the worst anti-American terrorist attacks preceding September 11, 2001. 
   This legislation will recognize all the citizens whose lives were lost in these bombings. In addition to recognizing the 10th anniversary of the al Qaeda bombings, this resolution will recognize all the families and friends of victims lost in the attack and mourn those who lost their lives in these tragic and senseless attacks. This resolution will also express gratitude for the people of Kenya and Tanzania for their gracious contributions and assistance following these attacks in striving for future opportunity, democracy, and prosperity, and reaffirm its resolve to defeat al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. 
   It is a national tragedy that lives have been victim to reckless acts of terrorism, and the least we can do as a Congress, as a Nation is to recognize those involved in this tragedy and the counties who came to our aid. We cannot withhold this honor from those victims that perished in the tragedy. As honored Members of Congress, we have the honor to have the opportunity to recognize this anniversary and ensure the proper recognition is given to those involved in the terrorist bombings of 1998. Anything else would be giving in to the power of the terrorist, to which America will not yield. 
   I firmly believe that we must pass this legislation in order to demonstrate our support of those people who lost their lives and those people who lost their loved ones, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. Though this was a horrible tragedy, we can recognize the Tenth Anniversary and bring honor to those who were victims of al Qaeda.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING NGO WORK ON ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN PEACE -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise is strong support of H. Res. 1369, Recognizing nongovernmental organizations working to bring just and lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians, which I am a cosponsor of. This bill was introduced by my distinguished colleague from California Congresswoman Barbara Lee. This important legislation encourages countries in the Middle East to find a solution that will ensure long lasting stability, prosperity, and self-sufficiency in their region and affirms the importance of nongovernmental organizations to this process. 
   GENERAL
   For decades, the United States and Israel have maintained strong bilateral relations based on a number of factors, including strong domestic U.S. support for Israel; shared strategic goals in the Middle East; shared democratic values; and historic ties dating back to U.S. support of the creation of Israel in 1948. U.S. economic and military aid has been a major component in cementing and reinforcing these ties. Although there have been occasional differences over Israel's settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and Israeli arms sales to China, successive administrations and many lawmakers have long considered Israel to be a reliable partner in the region, and U.S. aid packages for Israel have reflected this sentiment. 
   However, the elongated years of fighting between Israel and Palestine are indirectly detrimental to the position of our country in the Middle East. The most beneficial solution for the United States, 
   Israel, and Palestine is lasting peace in the holy regions, and as the Congress of the United States we must recognize that nongovernmental organizations can facilitate this process and aid every country involved. The stability of the Middle Eastern region is important the United States, and this resolution will reaffirm our commitment to supporting any steps towards peace in the Israel and Palestine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING CAMPAIGN BY ORGANIZATION OF ISLAMIC CONFERENCE TO DIVERT UNITED DURBAN REVIEW CONFERENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I too want to add my appreciation to the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Berman of California, and the ranking member, Ms. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who was obviously here during that first Durban Conference in 2001. 
   Interestingly enough, that conference preceded the horrific tragedy that occurred in this country. I might venture to say that the contempt and hatred that was expressed there certainly did not help in adding to the idea that we are all part of the human family. But I will say to you that this is a characterization of relief. 
   And I do thank my colleague from California, Congresswoman BARBARA LEE. Both of us were on that early delegation. But more importantly we worked extensively to pressure, if you will, the Bush administration to actually send a high level delegation. In fact I believe that if we had sent a high-level delegation, many of us many times will argue for boycotting. In this instance, we worked with Secretary Powell and begged him to go so that he could put a face of America, and that face of America will be in conjunction with the basis of this particular conference, and that is for the first time to be able to hold a conference that marked an important recognition of the historic wounds raised or caused by slavery, colonialism and related ongoing racism, racial discrimination, including the recognition of trans-Atlantic slave trade as a crime against humanity and the people of African descent, people of Asian descent, and indigenous people, and as well to stamp out racial discrimination against persons of African descent, members of Jewish, Muslim, castes, indigenous Roma and Sinti and other communities. That is what we were supposed to be doing. But because I believe we did not send a high-level delegation, it was hijacked. We were hoodwinked. But I can assure you that as I can recount the actions of those of us who went unofficially claiming we were official, we were running from one meeting to the next to be able to argue for the purpose of this particular conference, putting the message of America forward, suggesting that we want to stamp out racism and anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination. We were there on the front line. 
   This is an important statement. And that statement says that America does recognize the sins of the past, that we do embrace those around the world who have suffered injustices, and we reject the anti-Semitism or creating an opportunity for this to be a cause of bashing Israel. But I believe that as we go as a full delegation, which I hope that many of us will again be able to attend the Durban review in 2009, you will see the opportunity for African Americans and those descendants of slaves around the world, those who are presently abused, you will see a standing up for the cause of eliminating and eradicating racism wherever it is and  scapegoating any people, which includes as well the Jewish people and the State of Israel. 
   Madam Speaker, I believe that this is a right step. I wish we had had this document. I wish we had had a high-level delegation some years ago. And if I might quickly acknowledge Mary Robinson. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING CAMPAIGN BY ORGANIZATION OF ISLAMIC CONFERENCE TO DIVERT UNITED DURBAN REVIEW CONFERENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I acknowledge the then Human Rights Commissioner, Mary Robinson, who was the architect somewhat of this idea. Her heart was in the right place. She was there. She wanted us to speak on the issues that this conference needed to grapple. 
   Racism, Madam Speaker, is intrinsic. It is deep. It is in the souls of many. It covers ethnicities and language. It is difficult to deal with. This is an important conference. This legislation should craft it, design it and stand for it in the right way. 
   Let me thank the NAACP for its support of this legislation. And I understand Wade Henderson, who was one of the architects of working with this, this is the right direction to go. I'm looking forward to a conference that speaks to the issues and embraces all of those who have been victims of racism and discrimination and to end it forever and ever.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING PREVENTION AND PUBLIC HEALTH -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I stand for a commitment to making public healthcare a priority. I stand for universal healthcare as a universal right. I stand to support H. Res. 1381, ``expressing the sense of the House that there should be an increased Federal commitment prioritizing prevention and public health for all people in the United States.'' I thank my colleague, Representative ROYBAL-ALLARD for introducing this important resolution. 
   I would be remiss if I did not also thank my dear colleague from Michigan, Chairman of Judiciary, and Congressman JOHN CONYERS, for his tireless work on prioritizing healthcare in this Congress. His bimonthly meetings to bring together the healthcare community, congressional Members and staff, and other stakeholders; speaks to his commitment to making universal healthcare a priority. 
   Sadly, the United States is the only wealthy, industrialized nation that does not have a universal health care system. Some of the other disturbing healthcare statistics are that: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES ORGAN TRANSPLANT AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the Speaker very much, and I appreciate his leadership this evening, and I appreciate his managing the floor in such a dynamic and excellent manner. 
   Let me also thank the chairman of the subcommittee on Energy and Commerce, Mr. Pallone, the manager of this bill. Let me thank our loyal opposition, Dr. Burgess, a colleague and friend from Texas. As well, let me thank Diana DeGette, who has worked so hard to get this legislation to the floor, one legislative initiative that has been championed by Stephanie Tubbs Jones and the honor that has been given her by naming this the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Organ Transplant Authorization Act of 2008. 
   This is a difficult question to debate on the floor of the House because, whenever you think of organ transplants, you're well aware that someone you've loved or some friend or some neighbor has passed away, and we know that when a loved one dies it is never a happy moment. Experiences like this  always bring sadness and sorrow, but when that loved one's death can serve, however, as a beacon of hope for someone else, maybe there can be an additional moment of comfort for those who have lost their loved ones. That's probably one of the most difficult aspects is to predict loss of life or to be able to say to your family that you want to be an organ donor. 
   This legislation, I think, goes a long way in responding to the thousands and thousands who are on the list for organ donations, such as for kidney and liver donations. Currently, there are over 60,000 people on the transplant list for kidneys, praying that someday they will receive a kidney and will be able to live a full life. Liver donations, I know, are extremely difficult. 
   I want to pay tribute to one of our very fine public servants in the State of Texas, State Senator Mario Gallegos, who goes around speaking openly about how his life was saved because of a liver transplant and about how he works tirelessly for full coverage for those individuals who receive transplants. 
   This bill is an important bill because the formula that was developed for organ transplants was developed in 1984. It is old and outdated. Since then, there have been countless new regulations that have increased the cost. In response, the marketplace has been shifting this cost on to private entities. Often, these entities are nonprofits that lack the funds to help in all they should be able to do or would like to do. 
   We need to help these patients with high-quality, low-cost health care and assure those who are needing transplants that they can rest easy in that they will receive the care they deserve. That is the advocacy of Senator Mario Gallegos. 
   This bill will create the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network public-private partnership that will greatly increase a patient's access to transplants. Additionally, it will take some of the burden off of the nonprofit entities that are already facing some of the toughest conditions in the sector. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES ORGAN TRANSPLANT AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. This bill will also provide an updated reimbursement formula to these nonprofits to modernize the system. Most importantly, it will make a very important statement, Mr. Speaker--the need for organ donors and the great need of those needing organ transplants. 
   We know that we lost our very dear friend in August, a friend who championed health care, who championed her own health system in the State of Ohio. More importantly, she valued life because she lived it to the fullest. Yet she understood that, in death, you can also give life. This is a great tribute to Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. It reminds us again of the need of organ transplants and of donors in the African American population, which makes up about 12 percent of the Nation's population, about 12 percent of the patients who donate but 23 percent of the need. 
   So this is an important step forward, this legislation that is now being renewed. It is an important tribute to Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones and to her family. Out of the joyful life that she had, she then gave life in death and reminded us of the importance of organ transplants and of the life they give to others. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my support for House Resolution 6469, The Organ Transplant Authorization Act of 2008. Whether in war or peace, the greatest gift one person can give to another is the gift of life. 
   When a loved one dies, it is never a happy moment; experiences like this always bring sadness and sorrow. When that loved one's death can serve as a beacon of hope for another, it does not lessen the sadness; it allows the family to have a good, if small, memory of the loss of their loved one. 
   Thankfully, there are a great number of cases of living donors sharing the gift of life instead of giving it. In this country, the need for kidneys grows every year as kidney disease increases. It is estimated that within the next decade, the rate of kidney disease will double. Currently there are over 60,000 people on the transplant list praying that someday they will receive a kidney and will be able to live a full life, free of dialysis three times a week. It is time to help patients, all across the country, in need of lifesaving transplants of not just the kidney, but also heart, liver, lung and other vital organs. 
   Currently, we are facing a crisis in this country with regards to transplanting organs. As costs and governmental regulations go up, so does the cost, and so must the funding. As of now we are using a formula that was developed in 1984. It is old and outdated. Since then, there have been countless new regulations that have increased the cost. In response, the marketplace has been shifting this cost on to private entities. Often these entities are nonprofits that lack the funds to help all they should be able to. We need to help these patients with high quality, low cost health care that will assure that even those needing transplants can rest easy that they will receive the care they deserve. 
   This bill will create the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network. This public and private partnership will greatly increase patients' access to transplants. Additionally it will take some of the burden off of the nonprofit entities that are already facing some of the toughest conditions in the sector. This bill will also provide an updated reimbursement formula to these nonprofits to modernize the system. 
   Finally, this bill will honor an ardent supporter of transplantation, the Honorable Stephanie Tubbs Jones. Before her death, she ordered that when she passed away, her organs be donated, to any in need. Her death, while a great loss for myself, her state, and anyone who knew her and loved her, will hopefully serve as an example for her fellow Ohioans and beyond. Congresswoman Tubbs Jones knew, like all of us will, that there is a growing need among the African American community for transplantation. Currently, African Americans make up about 12 percent of the Nation's population and about 12 percent of the patients who donate. However, of all the patients requiring a transplant, 23 percent of them are African American. This disparity is a growing epidemic and must be resolved. 
   Mr. Speaker, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones served as a model for how we should live our lives and beyond. I hope that her memory will inspire millions around the Nation to take up the noble cause of saving those who have no other choice. I urge passage of this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNITED STATES COMMITMENT TO PRESERVATION OF RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL SITES -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my support for House Concurrent Resolution 255, expressing the sense of Congress regarding the United States commitment to preservation of religious and cultural sites and condemning instances where sites are desecrated. The heart of this bill is protecting the memory and beliefs of those around the world. Protecting the beliefs of others allows me to rest easy that my beliefs and the beliefs of those in the 18th Congressional District of Texas are kept safe. 
   Protecting religious freedoms isn't just about allowing anyone to pray to whatever God they believe in, it is also about allowing them to have religious sites that are safe from molestation by people who disagree with what those places symbolize and embody. These sites are more than Churches, Synagogues, and Mosques; they are gardens, statues, and cemeteries. 
   Before 9/11 happened, the Taliban was still in the midst of wreaking havoc on all those who believed in things different from them. In March 2001, Supreme Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar issued an edict against un-Islamic graven images. This edict made two mountain sized, 1,500 year old sandstone statues of Buddha against the law. Through hand placed dynamite and tank shells fired from below, these two majestic monuments of sixth century ingenuity were reduced to rubble. As if this wasn't bad enough, the culprits of this despicable deed went through local museums with sledge hammers finding anything that was related to other religions. After it was over, 2,500 artifacts from centuries passed were lost forever to what can only be described as petty, but effective, vandalism. 
   Mr. Speaker, destruction like this should not be allowed. This does not just hurt those who follow the teachings of Buddha; this hurts those who have their own beliefs shared by people around the world. Christian burial grounds, Jewish monuments to the Holocaust, and Islamic mosques need to be protected to assure that every man, woman, and child has the right to practice whatever religion they want. 
   Second only to personal safety, in regard to defending religious rights, is safeguarding the sites that are sacred to a religion. Buddhists around the world were gravely hurt by the destruction of their statues. Before the Taliban had come to power, these 15 story tall monuments had served as a beacon for Buddhists everywhere. They could come and view the proof that people just like them 15 centuries ago had the same basic beliefs that they did. This was proof that this faith could endure and in fact, had for generations. 
   This bill will express to the world, in a clear and unwavering voice, that the United States of America will not tolerate such brutal attacks on religion. Residents of my district know that if anyone in the world was attacking their most tightly held beliefs and religious ideals that the Federal Government would not sit idly by and watch as a repeat of the destruction on the mountainside of Bamiyan, Afghanistan, occurred. 
   Sites from Jerusalem's Wailing Wall to the supreme holy city of Mecca to the Vatican City should remain protected from those who don't believe what these places represent. In the end, the right to practice any religion you  choose doesn't just protect those who practice; it protects those who don't practice. Religion, like speech, is such an engrained belief in our country, since the time of the founding of the country, that it must be protected at all costs.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 61, and thank my friend from Georgia, JOHN LEWIS, for authoring this important resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, yesterday the Nation observed for the 21st time the Martin Luther King, Jr., holiday. Each year this day is set aside for Americans to celebrate the life and legacy of a man who brought hope and healing to America. The Martin Luther King holiday reminds us that nothing is impossible when we are guided by the better angels of our nature. 
   Dr. King's inspiring words filled a great void in our Nation, and answered our collective longing to become a country that truly lived by its noblest principles. Yet, Dr. King knew that it wasn't enough just to talk the talk; he knew he had to walk the walk for his words to be credible. And so we commemorate on this holiday the man of action, who put his life on the line for freedom and justice every day. 
   We honor the courage of a man who endured harassment, threats and beatings, and even bombings. We commemorate the man who went to jail 29 times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting and organizing anyway. 
   Dr. King once said that we all have to decide whether we ``will walk in the light of creative altruism or the darkness of destructive selfishness. Life's most persistent and nagging question, he said, is `what are you doing for others?' '' 
   And when Martin talked about the end of his mortal life in one of his last sermons, on February 4, 1968, in the pulpit of Ebenezer 
   Baptist Church, even then he lifted up the value of service as the hallmark of a full life. ``I'd like somebody to mention on that day Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to give his life serving others,'' he said. ``I want you to say on that day, that I did try in my life . . . to love and serve humanity. 
   Madam Speaker, during these difficult days when the United States is bogged down in a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has claimed the lives of too many of our brave young service men and women, we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was, above all, a person who was always willing to speak truth to power. There is perhaps no better example of Dr. King's moral integrity and consistency than his criticism of the Vietnam war being waged by the Johnson administration, an administration that was otherwise a friend and champion of civil and human rights. 
   Speaking at the historic Riverside Church in New York City on April 4, 1967, Dr. King stated:  
   I am as deeply concerned about our own troops there as anything else. For it occurs to me that what we are submitting them to in Vietnam is not simply the brutalizing process that goes on in any war where armies face each other and seek to destroy. We are adding cynicism to the process of death, for they must know after a short period there that none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really involved. Before long they must know that their government has sent them into a struggle among Vietnamese, and the more sophisticated surely realize that we are on the side of the wealthy, and the secure, while we create a hell for the poor. 
   Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of Vietnam. . . . I speak as a citizen of the world, for the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak as one who loves America, to the leaders of our own nation: The great initiative in this war is ours; the initiative to stop it must be ours.  
   Madam Speaker, these words were spoken by Dr. King 1 year to the day before his death. Thus it is that nearly 40 years after his death, Dr. King continues to teach us all. 
   Madam Speaker, the death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., will never overshadow his life. He was both a dreamer and a man of action. He leaves a legacy of hope, tempered with peace. It is a legacy not quite yet fulfilled. 
   Madam Speaker, Dr. King's dream of equality under the law will never die so long as there are those like us in the Congress, and millions of people in this country and around the world, who are willing to continue the fight to make it real for all persons. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, this Monday the Nation observed for the 21st time the Martin Luther King, Jr., holiday On Monday, we celebrated the life and legacy of a man who brought hope and healing to America. The Martin Luther King holiday reminds us that nothing is impossible when we are guided by the better angels of our nature. 
   Dr. King's inspiring words filled a great void in our Nation, and answered our collective longing to become a country that truly lived by its noblest principles. Yet, Dr. King knew that it wasn't enough just to talk the talk, that he had to walk the walk for his words to be credible. And so we commemorate on this holiday the man of action, who put his life on the line for freedom and justice every day. 
   We honor the courage of a man who endured harassment, threats and beatings, and even bombings. We commemorate the man who went to jail 29 times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting and organizing anyway. 
   Dr. King once said that we all have to decide whether we ``will walk in the light of creative altruism or the darkness of destructive selfishness. Life's most persistent and nagging question,'' he said, is ``what are you doing for others?'' 
   And when Martin talked about the end of his mortal life in one of his last sermons, on February 4, 1968, in the pulpit of Ebenezer Baptist Church, even then he lifted up the value of service as the hallmark of a full life. ``I'd like somebody to mention on that day Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to give his life serving others,'' he said. ``I want you to say on that day, that I did try in my life ..... to love and serve humanity.'' 
   Madam Speaker, during these difficult days when the United States is bogged down in a misguided and mismanaged war in Iraq, which has claimed the lives of too many of our brave young service men and women, we should also remember that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was, above all, a person who was always willing to speak truth to power. There is perhaps no better example of Dr. King's moral integrity and consistency than his criticism of the Vietnam War being waged by the Johnson Administration, an administration that was otherwise a friend and champion of civil and human rights. 
   Speaking at the historic Riverside Church in New York City on April 4, 1967, Dr. King stated:  
   I am as deeply concerned about our own troops there as anything else. For it occurs to me that what we are submitting them to in Vietnam is not simply the brutalizing process that goes on in any war where armies face each other and seek to destroy. We are adding cynicism to the process of death, for they must know after a short period there that none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really involved. Before long they must know that their government has sent them into a struggle among Vietnamese, and the more sophisticated surely realize that we are on the side of the wealthy, and the secure, while we create a hell for the poor. 
   Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of Vietnam. I speak for those whose land is being laid waste, whose homes are being destroyed, whose culture is being subverted. I speak for the poor of America who are paying the double price of smashed hopes at home, and death and corruption in Vietnam. I speak as a citizen of the world, for the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak as one who loves America, to the leaders of our own nation: The great initiative in this war is ours; the initiative to stop it must be ours.  
   Madam Speaker, these words were spoken by Dr. King 1 year to the day before his death. Thus it is that nearly 40 years after his death, Dr. King continues to teach us all. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING NEW EFFECTIVE DATE FOR APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF LAW -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 188, which extends the effective date for the applicability of certain provisions of law to Public Law 105-331 to July 1, 2007. Public Law 105-331 revises the nonfederal matching requirements conditioning payment to a designated recipient organization of certain proceeds from any surcharges on the sale of Thomas Alva Edison Commemorative Coins. 
   H.R.188 will establish July 1, 2007, as the end of the 2-year period after which there must be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts any amounts deriving from such surcharge proceeds which have not been paid to a designated recipient organization solely because of the organization's failure to submit an audited financial statement demonstrating that all matching requirements have been met. 
   This extension will allow many organizations to receive the funds provided to them under the bill, and thus carry out the original intent of this body to celebrate the legacy of Thomas A. Edison, one of this country's greatest inventors. 
   The 2004 Thomas Alva Edison Commemorative Coin Act, Public Law 105-331, authorizes the production of up to 500,000 silver dollar coins. This coin commemorates the 125th anniversary of Thomas Edison's invention of the light bulb. 
   Thomas Edison made immeasurable contributions to this country. His inventions include the invention of a complete system of electric light and power and the launching of the modern electric utility industry. The Pearl Street station, which opened in lower Manhattan in September 1882, featured safe and reliable central power generation, efficient distribution, and a successful end use (i.e., the long-lasting incandescent light bulb and electric motors. In the 1890s, Edison began working on motion picture technology, and in the process created a third industry. Edison began 
   commercial production of short movies in 1893, often filming in the famous ``Black Maria,'' the first motion picture studio. Like the electric light and phonograph before it, Edison developed a complete system that encompassed everything needed to both film and show motion pictures. 
   We must continue to acknowledge and honor Thomas Edison for his irreplaceable contributions, many of which we cannot imagine living without. Some of the organizations that will receive funds to help honor the many great contributions of Thomas A. Edison include: 
   Museum of Arts and History--Up to one-eighth to the Museum of Arts and History, in the city of Port Huron, Michigan, for the endowment and construction of a special museum on the life of Thomas A. Edison in Port Huron; 
   Edison Birthplace Association--Up to one-eighth to the Edison Birthplace Association, Inc. in Milan, Ohio, to assist in the efforts of the association to raise an endowment as a permanent source of support for the repair and maintenance of the Thomas A. Edison birthplace, a national historic landmark; 
   National Park Service--Up to one-eighth to the National Park Service, for use in protecting, restoring and cataloguing historic documents and objects at the ``Invention Factory'' of Thomas A. Edison, in West Orange, New Jersey; 
   Edison Plaza Museum--Up to one-eighth to the Edison Plaza Museum in Beaumont, Texas, for expanding educational programs on Thomas A. Edison and for the repair and maintenance of the museum; 
   Edison Winter Home and Museum--Up to one-eighth to the Edison Winter Home and  Museum in Fort Myers, Florida, for historic preservation, restoration, and maintenance of the historic home and chemical laboratory of Thomas A. Edison; 
   Edison Institute--Up to one-eighth to the Edison Institute, otherwise known as ``Greenfield Village'' in Dearborn, Michigan, for use in maintaining and expanding displays and educational programs associated with Thomas A. Edison; and 
   Edison Memorial Tower--Up to one-eighth to the Edison Memorial Tower in Edison, New Jersey, for the preservation, restoration, and expansion of the tower and museum. 
   It is important that we allow these organizations that were selected to receive proceeds from the sale of the commemorative coins to receive the funds that will financially support their efforts to honor the legacy of Thomas A. Edison. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 188 to provide a new effective date for the applicability of certain provisions of law to Public Law 105-331. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING AND COMMEMORATING THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the Speaker very much. Might I say I thank the Speaker for his leadership and certainly his patience this evening. 
   We have spent the last 4 days in many of our Congressional districts celebrating and commemorating the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, and as many of us have participated for almost 3 days as we went home for the weekend, these commemorations have become more than celebrations and the kinds of actions that take place when a holiday allows one to commemorate. 
   As I listened to my good friends across the aisle, one would wonder if I am now going to again recount the great legacy of Dr. King, as my good friend and colleague, JOHN LEWIS, who has an enormous history with the movement and is certainly our conscience, passed a suspension bill on the floor today, one that he authored, in tribute to Dr. King and in recognition of his 78th birthday. 
   But in this time, I wish to suggest that Dr. King's legacy is really a living document and a living legacy, so I want to weave the message that Dr. King left for America and the world throughout the changes that I believe are key to where we are today. 
   As I listened to my friends speak about the advancing bill that will deal with energy reform, let me just say that coming from Houston, I happen to be the Congressperson that represents one of the largest areas, we call it the energy capital of the world. I practiced oil and gas law for 15-plus years before coming to the United States Congress, and I have in many instances supported and will continue to support the growth, the positive growth and the continued development of a very important industry in this country. 
   In fact, it should be known that as I got elected to Congress one of the first acts that I worked on with former President Clinton was to assess the issue of royalty relief for the industry, at that time of course suffering from low development, low prices, and which needed an economic engine, if you will. So rather than look at the next step that the Democratic leadership wants us to take as undermining the industry, we should look at it as an opportunity for expanding on the term ``energy.'' 
   One would say, how does this weave into the life and legacy of Martin King? Martin King was a dreamer and also an activist, and he wanted for Americans, all of us, of all races, of all religions, of all beliefs, a better quality of life. So I believe that tomorrow and Thursday when we have an opportunity to present this bill on the floor of the House, it will be an opportunity to look at alternative fuels, renewable fuels, new ideas, but at the same time it will give many of us an opportunity to plant seeds of friendship and relationships with this energy industry that all of us want to become an independent industry and an independent America. 
   So, I look forward to the debate on the floor of the House in the tradition of Dr. King, who dreams for a better quality of life. Let us look at a new direction as we look to the opportunities for energy investment in the Gulf, which many of us supported in the last Congress. Let us give this initiative a chance of reforming or looking to an investment in alternatives and renewables. Might I say to my friends who are in the regions of oil and gas exploration, believe me, there is much room for your technology and expertise in renewables and alternatives. 
   I wanted to just comment on my good friends, as I begin to discuss where we are in Martin Luther King's dream. We all need dreamers. In fact, I would consider President John F. Kennedy the main Camelot of America. I would consider Americans wanting his dream to come true, his dream of a new and vibrant America, his dream of a youthful America, his dream of going to space, his dream of a peaceful America. So there are many dreamers. 
   But the question is, do we take the dreams and the message that those dreamers give us and now provide the activism that would cause America to have a better quality of life? 
   I think of our Constitution. In essence, as the Founding Fathers begin to deliberate on what kind of nation they wanted America to be, they were dreamers, because in fact they didn't know an America of the 21st century. They didn't know America as richly diverse as we have today. 
   But when they organized in the Constitutional Convention this document that now provides a very effective road map of democracy, they started out as follows: ``We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, ensure domestic Tranquility provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.'' 
   This is the very Constitution that Dr. King vested himself in, the 13th and 14th and 15th amendments. So he answered the call of Rosa Parks in the mid-1950s, because he had an idea that our Constitution was not working. Was there actually equality or due process as the 14th amendment would suggest? Were we as colored people, Negroes, truly free, as the 13th amendment might suggest? 
   I think Dr. King in his theological wisdom and his intellect probably recognized that this was not a free nation. So he accepted the call of Rosa Parks to question why free people could not sit anywhere they wanted in public modes of transportation. Many people consider the Montgomery bus boycott, and they used the terminology ``bus'' because it was a bus. But it was symbolic of the dividing line of color in America. 
   So Dr. King was very eloquent in his words, that he wanted to make sure that the dream of freedom, the more perfect union, was one that we could accept as a reality. 
   I want to acknowledge the King family. His children, Yolanda, and Martin, III, Dexter, Bernice; his wonderful, wonderful wife, of which I had the privilege of having a beautiful friendship, relationship, as she befriended women across America. This strong, regal woman, who after the death of her husband, a widow with four children, she was not going to let his dream die, and then organized the Martin Luther King Center in Atlanta, the memorial, the tribute to his works. The King family, Dr. King's family, Daddy King, and his mother. And the Ebenezer Baptist Church that still stands and has the legacy of the King family, and the tragic loss of his mother, doing what she loves best, playing in the church. 
   No one pays attention to the comprehensiveness of the life of the King family and their commitment to public service and the tragedies that have befallen them, but this weekend and this past day, in remembering what they stood for, should catapult us, propel America, into doing better. 
   That is why I am so proud that Democrats have weaved into their message of a new direction the understanding of the values of Martin King, Thomas Jefferson, John Quincy Adams, Benjamin Franklin, individuals who would not have known where we would be in this 21st century, but would have hoped for a wonderful and valiant America. 
   Alexander Hamilton, for example, charged us with the responsibility of not letting our democracy age as the paper upon which it was written, but he reminded us in 1775 that ``the sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or musty records. They are written as with a sunbeam in the whole volume of human nature by the hand of divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power.'' 
   As I talk about Dr. King, I must reflect on Guantanamo Bay or Abu Ghraib or where we are today in the Iraq war. You see, we are not isolated to view Dr. King simply as a holiday, a Federal holiday, or ``that civil rights leader,'' or the man who had this wonderful oratory and spoke eloquently in August of 1963, in the March on Washington. That is not all that his legacy should leave us. In fact, he too has provided a road map of which I am most saddened that we seemingly have left its pathway. 
   As I started to say, I am grateful in this new election when America spoke volumes of what changes they wanted  to see. We have the kind of leadership that is not turning a deaf ear to the voice of America. And Americans, if I might speak that you might hear, do not count your vote as your final word and say. You, too, are America.     
   As we proceed in this very new and exciting time of listening to you, so much so that we committed ourselves to the first 100 hours, and in that 100 hours, you can now look to see that we have reformed the lobbying debacle that we experienced in the last couple of Congresses, we now realize that we must reform ourselves. We passed that legislation limiting the intrusion of lobbyists and recognizing that there should be restraints that close the door to special interests but open the doors to America. That was the dream of Martin King. 
   Then, of course, we moved on to ensure that as we all fell to our knees during 9/11, as we saw the throngs of so many die, and made a commitment as we sang ``God Bless America'' on the very steps of this United States Capitol, Democrats and Republicans, we made a commitment to the fallen. We made a commitment to those mourning families. We made a commitment after the 9/11 Commission had finished its work to finish the job on homeland security. 
   But for Congress after Congress, we could not pass simple tasks such as inspections of airline cargo and a number of other funding needs for our first responders, our firefighters and our police persons, and we are still working on interoperability and looking to do better things with rail security and highway security. 
   We could not get it done; but in this new Congress, that took the dream of a dream of a better quality of life of Dr. King, we made his message a reality, passing the 9/11 Commission report. 
   We moved on to something that in all actuality, Mr. Speaker, really brought tears to my eyes. I have been here 12 years, and I have never served in the majority, frustration of the Medicare prescription drug benefit vote, and the vote on the war, and the vote on over and over again of rejecting hate crime legislation. Nothing extraordinary, Mr. Speaker, just legislation that would indicate that simply we would not tolerate hateful acts against people because of their difference. I sat in painful hearings listening to people denigrate hate crimes legislation, just a simple addition, having come from the State that saw a man decapitated just a few years ago in Jasper, Texas, because of the color of his skin. 
   I felt that pain of not getting legislation passed, and yet I believe it was last Wednesday we cast a vote for the minimum wage, an overwhelming vote, and I applaud my colleagues from both sides of the aisle. 
   Tears came to my eyes because I have to go back to a restaurant where a waitress stopped me. Well, sometimes we do not give America much credit for all the knowledge that they have. I enjoy being out listening to my constituents. They are so instructive, and this waitress just stopped me while she was putting the food there on the steam table. Those of you know we get good Southern food at the steam table. And so she stopped me and said are we going to get an increase in the minimum wage. That vote last week, reflective of the message of Dr. King, acting on his dream, gave us that opportunity. 
   We moved on, of course, to cast a number of other votes that would see improvement in the lives of Americans. 
   This week we have the opportunity as well to address the piercing interest rates on our college students. We have always prided ourselves on believing in equality of education. It was an equalizer for immigrants in the early 1900s, as it is today, certainly for minorities, women, African Americans who started off as second-class citizens. You always had their parents telling you, get an education, but yet these spiraling interest rates, and we are getting ready to cut it in half. What an inspiration to be able to focus on that. 
   So I want to acknowledge our vice-chair, JOHN LARSON, who many people do not know is a lover of history but also a protector of history and helped to introduce the Amistad slave ship to the rest of America. These are the new direction leaders. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Conyers, may I pay tribute to you? It gives me such a privilege to be able to come to this floor with you as the chairperson of the House Judiciary Committee, along with the ranking member, who is a friend and colleague from Texas. But it is a special honor, and it humbles many of us, because a lot of us were not here for the debate on the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voter Rights Act of 1965. Many Americans think that that bill only pertains and helps people of color, but really what it does is it restores that legislation, the value and the preciousness of the right to vote for all Americans. I am gratified that Chairman Conyers, who has a history with restoring the rights of Americans to vote, now finds himself on the floor in the doorway of history to be able to reaffirm the Constitution. 
   And I heard my good friend, and I am glad that you will hear from my colleague from Texas, Congressman Al Green, who spent a few days on the bench and I think would recognize a Constitution when he would see it. But I think this is important, because if the American people are listening, there is some suggestion, what kind of irreverent actions are occurring on this floor? Why are we ignoring the Constitution? And I take great umbrage with that. I am sensitive to that. My very fabric of my existence is embedded in the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendment. I want the Constitution to be cherished, and I want it to be right. 
   So let me just recount for you why we can move from one section to the next, and it relates to the constitutionality of what we are doing. And I would only hope that my friends would not be rejecting this bill because, in fact, it is the District of Columbia. And let me remind America that Utah is given an opportunity for its citizens to be represented. 
   But in 1820, the Supreme Court held that Congress could impose Federal taxes on the District, and it was related to the provision in here that says  representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States. So we tax them based upon language in the Constitution that they equal the States. 
   Then in 1889, the Supreme Court found that the constitutional prohibition against State laws that interfere with commerce applies to States and the District of Columbia, again equating the District of Columbia to States. 
   And then in 1934, the Supreme Court found that Congress could treat the District of Columbia as a State. 
   So in the Constitution it says that: The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second year by the people of several States. 
   But it also says that this Congress has jurisdiction in clause 17 under section 8 over the District of Columbia, and that is what we are doing here today. We are correcting a wrong, an ill. We are correcting a disease. We are equating this city to the rights of Iraqis, who are now able to vote for all of those they want to vote for, albeit it is in a troubled situation. 
   And so I would simply commend my colleagues to this, and to suggest that there was something wrong in the rule for not asking for an expedited Supreme Court review, my friends, the Supreme Court will be able to deliberate on this particular legislation in due time and be able to render a decision and expedited request warrants or suggests there should be a crisis. There was not an expedited request in the election of 2000, and the Supreme Court decided it in 4 or 5 days. For me, that was an emergency. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentleman for his inquiry. He made a very good point: can't the courts reconcile the issues between the two parties on their own expedited time. They can. And that is the example I used with the issue in the election of 2000. As you well know, that case, Gore v. Bush, went to the United States Supreme Court on their own expediting, and a decision was made between four or five days. 
   My friends, this is a smoke-and-mirror issue. We welcome the Supreme Court's review. But today, we are holding up the Constitution, and I hope that as we hold it up, we will reflect upon those whose blood has been shed on behalf of this country, that we are giving them the right to vote legally, and under the Constitution.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1433, the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007, and thank the chairman of the Judiciary Committee for his leadership in shepherding this important piece of legislation to the floor. Today we remove a stain that has blighted our Nation for more than 200 years of shame and correct an injustice to the citizens of the District of Columbia. 
   H.R. 1433 would permanently expand the U.S. House of Representatives from 435 to 437 seats, providing a new, at-large seat to Utah and a vote to the District of Columbia. Based on the 2000 Census, Utah is the State next in line to enlarge its congressional delegation. The bill does not give the District statehood, nor does it give the District representation in the Senate. Rather, in H.R. 1433 Congress is simply treating the District as a congressional district for the purposes of granting full House representation, as it can pursuant to the grant of plenary power over the District of Columbia conferred by the Constitution in article I, section 8, clause 17. 
   At the outset, let me address the claim that H.R. 1433 is a weak foundation upon which to base the District's voting rights in the House because it is a statutory rather a constitutionally based remedy. The argument should be rejected for the simple reason that it makes the perfect the enemy of the good. It is like asking a person to remain homeless while she saves to buy a house even though she has enough money to rent an apartment. 
   Madam Speaker, let us not lose sight of one indisputable and shameful fact: Nearly 500,000 people living in the District of Columbia lack direct voting representation in the House of Representatives and Senate. Residents of the District of Columbia serve in the military, pay billions of dollars in Federal taxes each year, and assume other responsibilities of U.S. citizenship. For over 200 years, the District has been denied voting representation in Congress--the entity that has ultimate authority over all aspects of the city's legislative, executive, and judicial functions. 
   Madam Speaker, if a person can be called upon to pay Federal taxes and serve in the Armed Forces of the United States, then he or she should at least have the opportunity to vote for a representative who could at least cast a symbolic vote in this Chamber on critical matters facing our Nation--issues like war and peace, equality and justice. 
   Madam Speaker, taxation without representation is tyranny. It is unconscionable that more than a half million American citizens are being unconscionably denied a vote and a voice in the most important legislative body in the world. 
   As a supporter of freedom, democracy, and equality, I believe that it is long overdue for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have a Representative in Congress who can vote on the vital legislation considered in this body. 
   Madam Speaker, it is wrong that we must be reminded daily by license plates in the District of Columbia that ``Taxation without representation is tyranny.'' The people in Boston felt so strongly about this in 1775 that they rebelled in Boston Harbor, launching the ``Boston Tea Party.'' 
   The principle that political authority derives from the consent of the government is no less applicable when it comes to the District of Columbia. Let us be clear. There is no dispute that hundreds of thousands of American citizens reside in the District of Columbia. We all agree that universal suffrage is the hallmark of a democratic regime, of which the United States is the world's leading exemplar. 
   None of us believes it is fair that citizens of the District of Columbia pay Federal taxes, risk life and limb fighting wars abroad to protect American democracy and extend the blessings of liberty to people living in foreign lands. In short, there is no moral reason to deny the citizens of the District of Columbia the right to full representation in Congress. The only question is whether Congress has the will and the constitutional authority to do so. As I will discuss, Congress has always had the constitutional authority. For the last 12 years, we have not had the will; but now we do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the rule governing the debate of H.R. 1591, ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' There is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of all members of Congress. Beginning with the distinguished gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. MURTHA, many good ideas have been advanced by members of Congress to bring to a successful conclusion the American military engagement in Iraq. 
   It is in that spirit that I commend the leadership and the Chairwoman of the Rules Committee, Ms. SLAUGHTER, for their patient and careful crafting of the Iraq Emergency Supplemental that will come before us later today. I support this rule and I support the supplemental because I support our magnificent servicemen and women in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is a product of compromise. The rule and bill before us are no different. If it was left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract provisions which we think would improve the bill. For example, I offered four amendments to H.R. 1591. Let me describe them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Obey) for yielding. 
   And, Mr. Murtha, you were right, and the leadership. 
   I rise here today because I stand next to those who have lost their lives, so many of them around the country, but so many in Houston, Texas. 
   I said I would travel with this board from Houston to Washington, and I said that I would do what was right to make their sacrifice one that we continue to honor. We mourn them. Their families mourn them. 
   This is the right direction because the military goes to battle, but we go to war, and the Constitution does say that this Congress can declare war. It was not declared. And, frankly, it is not an interference. The generals are working, but we are redirecting policy. 
   In fact, we are providing for unit readiness, length of deployment, time between deployments, money for Afghanistan, money for prosthetics, money for brain injury. We are providing for a new life for these soldiers when they return home. And like the former member of the Intelligence Committee says, this bill is right. I quarreled with it. I fought with it. But I believe it is the right thing, though many of us want a different direction. 
   Vote for this supplemental. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me first of all add my appreciation to Congressman Tom Davis; maybe the constitutional teachers at the University of Virginia law school are owed a debt of gratitude as well; and, of course, the gentlelady who has persisted throughout her, I think, legal and legislative career, the Honorable Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. 
   This is a historic moment and an historic day. I think the crucial-ness of this debate should not be lost on the American people. I rise to support this rule, this structured rule, that allows an amendment by Mr. Waxman and Mr. Conyers, and I would like to give comfort to those on the other side of the aisle to read their Constitution and explore even some of the Supreme Court cases that document that the District of Columbia under Supreme Court law has been held as a State in certain purposes. 
   Now, what is lost in this debate is that this is not a singular legislative act that excludes a balance. Out of this provision comes a seat for the State of Utah, which has requested a seat for many, many years. Just recently, we added a seat for North Carolina so that citizens of the United States could vote. So it is being defined by my opponents on the other side, this rule that it is unconstitutional because they are not giving you the whole story. This, because of population concerns, adds a seat to Utah. But, more importantly, this is a constitutional approach. They are right. Article I, section 2 indicates that the House of Representatives shall be composed of Members from every State. But then there is an enunciation of the powers of Congress that goes under section 8, clause 17, that ``the Congress has the power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatever over such district that has been established as the capital of the United States.'' The Congress has all power. 
   Now, let me say this. We are not all powerful. We represent the people of the United States. But would you ask the question as we are debating soon the crisis in Iraq, where the policies of this Nation have been to export democracy, create an opportunity for those citizens of Iraq to vest in their country, to vote for their leadership, does it make any sense for individuals paying taxes, who are on the front lines of Iraq, Afghanistan, World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, the Korean conflict, and any conflict around the world, to be denied the right to vote if the Constitution gives us the authority to do so? 
   I commend the Constitution to my colleagues. I might say that we welcome the distinguished gentleman from Iowa's amendment to work with Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton to get Senate provisions, if he desires to do so. It seems like he was concerned that the other body was not represented. But when we debate this question as we will soon, let us have the facts. You cannot quote one part, as one would say in the church, of the Bible and exclude the other part. You can't quote one part of the Constitution and ignore the powers of this Congress that has a right to exercise authority over the District of Columbia. 
   I think the other question that should be asked and answered, who will it harm? Who will be hurt by recognizing the voting rights of people that are here in the United States paying taxes and shedding their blood? Who would argue against the place that thousands and millions of Americans come as their capital that they love, and they leave behind those who care for and take care of this capital, the residents of the District of Columbia, and they leave them with no right to vote. 
   So I believe that this rule is the right rule. I have disagreed with rules, both Republican and, frankly, Democratic rules. Later today I will disagree with the rule that will be put forward. But frankly I think this rule that is structured makes a great deal of difference and it is important that we make sure that we abide by this book and we read it consistently with its language and that is to say that Congress has the power to move forward. 
   I would ask my colleagues to be reminded that there are citizens in this country that cannot vote, and I hope that you will view the work of the Congress as it is constitutional and right to give those citizens the right to vote, for they too are Americans. 
   I ask my colleagues to support the rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS OF INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 149, which supports the goals of International Women's Day (IWD). International Women's Day is a day on which millions around the world come together to commemorate their continued struggle for equality, justice, peace, and development for all women around the world. 
   International Women's Day has grown to become a global day of recognition and celebration across developed and developing countries alike. For decades, IWD has grown from strength to strength annually. For many years the United Nations has held an annual IWD conference to coordinate international efforts for women's rights and participation in social, political and economic processes. 
   Madam Speaker, 1975 was designated as `International Women's Year' by the United Nations. Women's organizations and governments around the world have also observed IWD annually on March 8 by holding large-scale events that honor women's advancement and while diligently reminding of the continued vigilance and action required to ensure that women's equality is gained and maintained in all aspects of life.  
   There are over 3,000,000,000 women in the world, representing 51 percent of the world's population; we need to celebrate and emphasize the important roles that women play around the world. 
   Throughout history women have faithfully and fervently forged a strong fight to tear down the walls of discrimination, bridge the gap between the haves and have-nots, and lay the foundation of a towering edifice of equality and justice. Some of these strong soldiers for justice include Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, and Rosa Parks. I am extremely proud of the recent passage of H.R. 4510, a bill on which Senator HILLARY CLINTON and I worked diligently together to pay tribute to the enormous contributions Sojourner Truth made in the interests of all women. H.R. 4510 directs the Joint Committee on the Library to accept the donation of a bust depicting Sojourner Truth and to display the bust in a suitable location in the Capitol. On behalf of women in this country, and all around the world, it was important to urge the recognition and honor of abolitionist Sojourner Truth with the addition of her likeness to the statue commemorating women's suffrage in the United States Capitol. 
   Women continue to play the prominent role in caring for families within the home as well as serving as economic earners. Women are defined by their versatility. Women not only cook, clean, and care for their children, but they also own and operate businesses, teach our schoolchildren, drive buses, create art, practice medicine and law, and legislate, as well as perform in many other capacities. 
   All over the world women play important roles in the world of diplomacy and politics, contribute to the growth of economies, and improve the quality of the lives of their families, communities, and nations. 
   Madam Speaker, we recently celebrated the 2007 election of Congresswoman NANCY PELOSI as the first female Speaker of the House, a significant stride in the cause of promoting the advancement of women as leaders and major players in politics. We also witnessed the recent passage of H.R. 4510, a bill I proudly introduced which directed the Joint Committee on the Library to accept the donation of a bust depicting Sojourner Truth and to display the bust in a suitable location in the Capitol. 
   On behalf of women in this country, and all around the world, it was important to urge the recognition and honor of abolitionist Sojourner Truth with the addition of her likeness to the statue commemorating women's suffrage in the United States Capitol. We also witnessed the 2006 election of Michelle Bachelet as the first female President of Chile; the 2006 election of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf as the first female President in Africa's history; and the 2005 election of Angela Merkel as the first female Chancellor of Germany, who will also serve as the second woman to chair a G8 summit beginning in 2007. 
   Women account for 80 percent of the world's 70 million micro-borrowers and 75 percent of the 28,000 United States loans supporting small businesses in Afghanistan are made to women, and 11 women are chief executive officers of Fortune 500 companies. 
   In the United States, women are graduating from high school at higher rates and are earning bachelors degrees or higher degrees at greater rates than men, with 88 percent of women between the ages of 25 and 29 having obtained a high school diploma and 31 percent of women between the ages of 25 and 29 earning a bachelors degree or higher. 
   But in spite of tremendous gains, women still face political and economic obstacles, struggle for basic rights, face the threat of discrimination, and are targets of violence all over the world. 
   Worldwide women remain vastly underrepresented in national and local assemblies, accounting on average for less than 10 percent of the seats in parliament, except for in East Asia where the figure is approximately 18 to 19 percent. In no developing region do women hold more than 8 percent of the ministerial positions. 
   Women work two-thirds of the world's working hours and produce half of the world's food, yet earn only 1 percent of the world's income and own less than 1 percent of the world's property. 
   In the United States between 1995 and 2000, female managers earned less than their male counterparts in the 10 industries that employ the vast majority of all female employees. Of the 1,300,000,000 people living in poverty around the world, 70 percent are women and children. 
   Madam Speaker, we need to continue to support programs that ensure women and girls across the globe are empowered with an education so that they reach their performance potentials and therefore function as productive citizens of the world. 
   According to the United States Agency for International Development, two-thirds of the 876,000,000 illiterate individuals worldwide are women, two-thirds of the 125,000,000 school-aged children who are not attending school worldwide are girls, and girls are less likely to complete school than boys. 
   Women are particularly vulnerable to health problems and we must continue to fight to ensure that every woman around the world has access to adequate health care and health insurance. 
   Worldwide women account for half of all cases of HIV/AIDS, approximately 42,000,000 cases, and in countries with a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, young women are at a higher risk than young men of contracting HIV. Globally, each year over 500,000 women die during childbirth and pregnancy. 
   We must also provide adequate protection and support systems that empower women to avoid or discontinue the victimization of abusive relationships. Domestic violence causes more deaths and disability among women between ages 15 and 44 than cancer, malaria, traffic accidents, and war. Worldwide, at least 1 out of every 3 women and girls has been beaten in her lifetime. 
   According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, at least 1 out of every 6 women and girls in the United States has been sexually abused in her lifetime. 
   Worldwide, 130,000,000 girls and young women have been subjected to female genital mutilation and it is estimated that 10,000 girls are at risk of being subjected to this practice in the United States. According to the Congressional Research Service and the Department of State, illegal trafficking in women and children for forced labor, domestic servitude, or sexual exploitation involves between 1 million and 2 million women and children each year, of whom 50,000 are transported into the United States. Between 75 and 80 percent of the world's 27,000,000 refugees are women and children. 
   In times and places of conflict and war, women and girls continue to be the focus of extreme violence and intimidation and face tremendous obstacles to legal recourse and justice. 
   Madam Speaker, March 8 has become known as International Women's Day for the last century, and is a day on which people, often divided by ethnicity, language, culture, and income, come together to celebrate a common struggle for women's equality, justice, and peace. For these reasons, the people of the United States have reason and should be eager to participate in International Women's Day. 
   I strongly support H. Res. 149.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE LATE DR. JOHN GARANG DE MABIOR -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 98. I rise to honor the life and achievements of the late Dr. John Garang de Mabior. I rise to reaffirm the continued commitment of the House of Representatives to a just and lasting peace in the Republic of the Sudan. 
   Let me express my thanks to Mr. PAYNE and Mr. WOLF, the chair and ranking member of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, respectively. I also wish to express my appreciation to the many other co-sponsors of this resolution who have worked long and hard to help bring about a just and lasting peace in Southern Sudan. 
   Madam Speaker, the life of Dr. John Garang de Mabior, ``Dr. John,'' as he was affectionately called, is testimony to mankind's innate capacity to do good and a powerful symbol of a peoples' struggle for freedom. In honoring Dr. John today, we also keep alive the dreams of his people. One day peace and justice will flow like milk and honey for all people throughout Southern Sudan. 
   Dr. John was born into a poor family of the Dinka ethnic group, in the Upper Nile Region of Sudan. He was orphaned by the age of 10 but was supported by his family members. It truly took a village to raise a child and what a child he was!  
   When the civil war broke out in 1962, Dr. John was too young to fight and was sent away to high school in Tanzania. In 1969, he earned a scholarship attend Grinnell College in Iowa. After graduation he could have attended graduate school at the University of California at Berkeley but turned it down, choosing instead, to return to Tanzania to study agricultural economics where he could be closer to his people. 
   In 1972, Dr. John joined the Sudanese military and became a career soldier. He eventually took a leave and earned his doctorate in agricultural economics from the University of Iowa. But a life of academic repose was not for Dr. John for he was a man of action and passion. And the actions and passions of his time called him to a life of struggle on behalf of the oppressed people of his country. 
   In 1983, Dr. John left the military and joined the newly created Sudanese Peoples' Liberation Army, a movement opposed to the imposition of Sharia law. Thus began his long career as the political and military leader of the people of Southern Sudan. 
   Throughout this struggle, Dr. John developed a strong political and personal relationship with many Members of the House of Representatives. 
   The struggle for justice in Sudan was not a partisan issue for Members of Congress. Strong bonds of collegiality and friendship were formed through our efforts to shape U.S. foreign policy toward Sudan. 
   In that sense, Dr. John's life and struggle, and the struggle of the Southern Sudanese people served to unite Democrats and Republicans in a common cause for freedom. 
   When I first met with Dr. John in my congressional office, I recall he did not waste words. In his soft-spoken way, he laid out very clearly his vision for Southern Sudan. And, in his highly dignified way, this powerfully charismatic man of deep conviction and strong moral character asked for my support and the support of the United States Congress on behalf of his people. It was clear to me then, as it is now, that Dr. John lived a purposeful life of singular devotion to the liberation and well-being of his people. 
   Dr. John's tragic death in the mountains of Uganda shocked the world. It seems enormously unjust for this man, who brought his people through a long and devastating civil war, who became Vice President of Sudan, and who later became head of Southern Sudan, to die in 2005 in a helicopter crash. 
   Madam Speaker, out of this historic tragedy, the people of Southern Sudan have been called to carry on. As Dr. John said after being inaugurated: ``I congratulate the Sudanese people. This is not my peace or the peace of al-Bashir; it is the peace of the Sudanese people.'' 
   Madam Speaker, the recognition this House today gives Dr. John Garang de Mabior should also remind us of the importance of redoubling our resolve to end the genocide in Darfur. There is wide-spread and broad- based consensus in America and between Democrats and Republicans that the ongoing genocide in Darfur is intolerable and must be ended. Thus, this is an area in which there is ample opportunity for the Congress and the Bush administration to find common ground to alleviate the overwhelming suffering in Darfur. 
   Not since the Rwandan genocide of 1994 has the world seen such a systematic campaign of displacement, starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror as we are witnessing in Darfur for the last 3 years. At least 400,000 people have been killed; more than 2 million innocent civilians have been forced to flee their homes and now live in displaced-persons camps in Sudan or in refugee camps in neighboring Chad; and more than 3.5 million men, women, and children are completely reliant on international aid for survival. Unless the world stirs from its slumber and takes concerted and decisive action to relieve this suffering, the ongoing genocide in Darfur will stand as one of the blackest marks on humankind for centuries to come. The people of Darfur cannot wait. The time has come for decisive leadership from the United States. 
   It has been more than 2 years since I and my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus Darfur Task Force met with Secretary Colin Powell to press successfully for the administration to declare that the campaign of ethnic cleansing and atrocities carried out against civilians primarily by the Government of Sudan and its allied Janjaweed militias is genocide. 
   It has been more than a year since I flew to Chad and walked across the border to Sudan and met with African Union troops who pleaded for more peacekeeping authority and the resources to protect the refugees from violence, rather than merely monitor it. After returning from that Congressional delegation, I worked with other Members of Congress to secure increased funding to aid the thousands of Sudanese displaced to refugee camps in Chad and to provide additional funding to assist Chad in responding to the humanitarian crisis. 
   It has been almost 2 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1556 demanding that the government of Sudan disarm the Janjaweed. This demand was later followed by Resolution 1706, which authorizes a 20,000 strong U.N. peacekeeping force. 
   It has been 6 months since the Darfur Peace Agreement was brokered in May 2006 between the Government of Sudan and one faction of Darfur rebels. 
   But still the violence continues; indeed, the violence is escalating. This violence is making it even more dangerous, if not impossible, for most of the millions of displaced persons to return to their homes and for humanitarian relief agencies to bring food and medical aid. According to Jan Egeland, the U.N.'s top humanitarian official, the situation in Darfur is ``going from real bad to catastrophic.'' 
   We have come full circle. Violence is increasing, peace treaties are falling apart, and again as a member of the Congressional Black Caucus Darfur Taskforce and a ranking member on the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, I have been meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice seeking an increase in the number of refugee visas for Darfur students to come to the United States to study. I will continue my ongoing, unceasing efforts to end the suffering in Darfur and bring peace to Sudan. These efforts include intensifying my discussions with Secretary Rice, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, representatives of the Arab League, and humanitarian groups such as Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, and various African public policy groups to discuss ways and means of bringing peace to that troubled land. 
   It is also not too early to begin the hard thinking and hard work needed to transform the Darfur region from killing field to economically, politically, and socially viable and peaceful community. This work will, of course, require the active and purposeful engagement of the United States and other key stakeholders, such as China, and the Arab League. In this connection, I have been engaged in an on-going dialogue with government representatives of Egypt, a dialogue that has already yielded significant 
   dividends. For example, Egypt has implemented several fast track projects in southern Sudan in different sectors involving health, agriculture, electricity, irrigation, infrastructure, and education in order to make unity an even more attractive option to the people of south Sudan. 
   It must be noted that no just and lasting peace in Sudan can be achieved without the responsible intervention of China. For too long China, which is Sudan's biggest oil customer, has also served as Khartoum's enabler and protector by preventing the U.N. Security Council from imposing more serious sanctions on Sudan in response to the genocide and crimes against humanity committed in Darfur. As former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick stated in a major policy speech on China a year ago: ``China should take more than oil from Sudan--it should take some responsibility for resolving Sudan's human crisis.'' Based on my meetings with Zhou Wenzhong, China's ambassador to the United States, I am hopeful that China can be persuaded to provide the type of constructive leadership in Sudan befitting a great power. 
   There is much work to be done and not much time, Madam Speaker. And I have no doubt that our response will be worthy of our responsibility as a world leader. But today, it is right and good and just to pause, reflect, and honor the remarkable life of a remarkable human being--Dr. John Garang de Mabior, which we will do by adopting H. Res. 98. 
   I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting the resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, as an original cosponsor and proud Texan, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 584, which designates the national headquarters building of the U.S. Department of Education located in the District of Columbia as the Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education Building. I support this bill because it is a fitting tribute to the greatest ``education President'' in the history of our Nation. 
   It is no exaggeration to say, Madam Speaker, that Lyndon Baines Johnson's record of extending the benefits of education to all Americans in every region of the country, of every race and gender, irrespective of economic class or family background, remains unsurpassed. Lyndon Johnson recognized that the educated citizenry is a nation's greatest economic asset and most powerful guardian of its political liberties. 
   Madam Speaker, Lyndon Johnson did more than any single American, living or dead, to make the Federal Government a partner with States and localities in the vitally important work of educating the people of America, from pre-kindergarten to post-graduate school. It makes perfect sense, therefore, to name the headquarters building of the U.S. Department of Education in his honor. 
   Madam Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson was one of the leading figures of the 20th century. This teacher who became a President served his country in numerous, distinguished ways, including as lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy during World War II, as a Member of both Houses of Congress, as Vice President of the United States, and as the 36th President of the United States. 
   Lyndon Baines Johnson was born on August 27, 1908, in Stonewall, TX. In 1927, he enrolled in Southwest Texas State Teachers College at San Marcos, TX--Texas State University--San Marcos. He took a leave of absence for a year to serve as principal and teach fifth, sixth, and seventh grades at Welhausen School, a Mexican-American school in the south Texas town of Cotulla. He graduated with a bachelor of science degree in August 1930. After graduation he taught at Pearsall High School in Pearsall, TX, and taught public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston, TX. In the spring of 1931, his debate team won the district championship. 
   In a special election in 1937, Johnson won the U.S. House of Representatives seat representing the 10th Congressional District of Texas, defeating nine other candidates. He was re-elected to a full term in the 76th Congress and to each succeeding Congress until 1948. 
   After the bombing of Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Johnson became the first Member of Congress to volunteer for active duty in the Armed Forces--U.S. Navy, reporting for active duty on December 9, 1941. Johnson received the Silver Star from GEN Douglas MacArthur for gallantry in action during an aerial combat mission over hostile positions in New Guinea on June 9, 1942. President Roosevelt ordered all Members of Congress in the Armed Forces to return to their offices, and Johnson was released from active duty on July 16, 1942. 
   In 1948, after a campaign in which he traveled by ``newfangled'' helicopter all over the State, Johnson won the primary by 87 votes and earned the nickname ``Landslide Lyndon,'' and in the general election was elected to the U.S. Senate. He was elected minority leader of the Senate in 1953 and majority leader in 1955. He served in the U.S. Senate until he resigned to become Vice President in January 1961. 
   Lyndon Johnson became the 36th President of the United States on November 22, 1963, after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
   During his administration, education was one of the many areas where President Johnson blazed new ground. He pursued numerous 
   education initiatives, and signed many landmark education bills into law. 
   In 1963, President Johnson approved the Higher Education Facilities Act--P.L. 88-204, which authorized a five-year program of Federal grants and loans for construction or improvement of public and private higher education academic facilities. This legislation was the largest education program enacted by Congress since the National Defense Education Act of 1958, and it was the first broad education bill enacted in the post-World War II period that was not tied to national defense. 
   In 1964, Johnson signed the Library Services Act--P.L. 88-269--to make high quality public libraries more accessible to both urban and rural residents. The funds made available under this act were used to construct as well as operate libraries, and to extend this program to cities as well as rural areas. Later that year, President Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act--P.L. 88-352, which among its landmark provisions authorized Federal authorities to sue for the desegregation of schools and to withhold Federal funds from education institutions that practiced segregation. 
   In 1965, President Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--P.L. 89-10--at the former Junction Elementary School in Stonewall, TX, where he first attended school. Sitting beside him as he signed the bill was his first teacher, Mrs. Kathryn Deadrich Loney. This legislation was the first general aid-to-education program ever adopted by Congress, and it provided programs to help educate disadvantaged children in urban and rural areas. Later that year, he also signed the Higher Education Act--P.L. 89-329, which was the first program approved by the U.S. Congress for scholarships to undergraduate students. 
   In 1965, President Johnson launched Project Head Start, as an 8-week summer program, to help break the cycle of poverty by providing pre-school children from low-income families with a comprehensive program to meet their emotional, social, health, nutritional, and psychological needs. Recruiting children from ages three to school-entry age, Head Start was enthusiastically received by education and child development specialists, community leaders, and parents across the Nation. Currently, Head Start continues to serve children and their families each year in urban and rural areas in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. territories, as well as many migrant children. 
   In 1966, President Johnson signed the International Education Act--P.L. 89-698, which promoted international studies at U.S. colleges and universities. 
   In 1968, he signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act Amendments of 1967--P.L. 90-247, establishing bilingual education programs for non-English speaking children, and providing more funds for special education for disabled children. Later that year, he also signed the Handicapped Children's Early Education Assistance Act--P.L. 90-538, which authorized experimental programs for disabled children of pre-school age. 
   After leaving office, Lyndon Johnson returned to his native Texas and continued his involvement in public education. His presidential papers are housed at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum at the University of Texas, which in 1970 established the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs, The ``LBJ School,'' as is commonly known, pioneered what was then regarded as a novel approach to training for public service. 
   The curriculum combined courses in theory with courses that took students into government agencies to work and conduct research; the faculty included academics from various disciplines as well as practitioners from various levels of government; public service programs included an academic publishing program as well as workshops for government officials. This blend of the academic and the practical remains the distinguishing characteristic of the LBJ School and this highly effective approach to training for public service is today an accepted model for public affairs graduate programs across the country. 
   Madam Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson, who died January 22, 1973, will be remembered not only as a great President and Member of Congress, but also as the greatest champion of accessible and affordable quality education for all. President Johnson truly understood the importance of leaving no child behind, and he didn't. 
   For all these reasons, Madam Speaker, it is most appropriate that the headquarters building of the Department of Education located at 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., in the District of Columbia be designated the ``Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education Building.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE NEGRO BASEBALL LEAGUES AND THEIR PLAYERS -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 162, which recognizes the contributions of the Negro Baseball Leagues and their players for their achievements, dedications and sacrifices to baseball and the Nation. 
   African Americans began to play baseball in the late 1800s on military teams, college teams, and company teams. They eventually found their way to professional teams with white players. Moses Fleetwood Walker and Bud Fowler were among the first to participate. However, racism and ``Jim Crow'' laws would force them from these teams by 1900. Thus, black players formed their own units, ``barnstorming'' around the country to play anyone who would challenge them. 
   In 1920, an organized league structure was formed under the guidance of Andrew ``Rube'' Foster--a former player, manager, and owner for the Chicago American Giants. In a meeting held at the Paseo YMCA in Kansas City, MO, Foster and a few other Midwestern team owners joined to form the Negro National League. Soon, rival leagues formed in Eastern and Southern states, bringing the thrills and innovative play of black baseball to major urban centers and rural countrysides in the U.S., Canada, and Latin America. The Leagues maintained a high level of professional skill and became centerpieces for economic development in many black communities. 
   In 1945, Major League Baseball's Brooklyn Dodgers recruited Jackie Robinson from the Kansas City Monarchs. Robinson now becomes the first African American in the modern era to play on a Major League roster. While this historic event was a key moment in baseball and civil rights history, it prompted the decline of the Negro Leagues. The best black players were now recruited for the Major Leagues, and black fans followed. The last Negro Leagues teams folded in the early 1960s, but their legacy lives on through the surviving players and the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. 
   The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum is extremely significant because it represents many of the outstanding contributions that blacks made to the game of baseball notwithstanding their initial exclusion from the professional baseball league here in this country. The museum was designated America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum when the House passed a resolution. The museum, in the 18th and Vine Historic Jazz District, was founded in 1990 to commemorate an era when many of baseball's top players could not perform on the game's biggest stage, the major leagues, but instead made their own history. The museum draws about 60,000 visitors a year who can view evidence of the great contributions made to America's favorite pastime. 
   The legacy of the Negro Baseball Leagues also lives on through the multitude of great black and Latino players who have contributed greatly to the game of baseball. The contributions of the Negro Baseball League players certainly paved the way for baseball giants such as Jackie Robinson, Hank Aaron, Willie Mays, Roberto Clemente, and Barry Bonds. Hank Aaron is the Major League Baseball homerun record-holder because of the significant role the Negro Baseball Leagues played in the black community. The Negro Baseball League is not only a great contribution to the black community but also to the Nation and the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 162 to recognize the contributions of the Negro Baseball Leagues and their players for their achievements, dedication and sacrifices to baseball and the Nation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL CHILDREN AND FAMILIES DAY -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 62, which supports the goals and ideals of National Children and Families Day. The purpose of H. Con. Res. 62 is to encourage adults to listen to children and to help children throughout the Nation achieve their hopes and dreams, and for other purposes. 
   As Chair of the Children's Caucus, I strongly believe that we must continue creating positive and effective support systems for our children so that they will become healthy, productive citizens. To do this, we must ensure that all of our children have access to quality education and healthcare. We must also give quality time to our children. 
   Mr. Speaker, National Children and Families Day encourages parents to spend time with their children and to spend time together around the dinner table. 
   Our young children are increasingly facing monumental challenges such as drug and alcohol addiction, pregnancy, depression, and obesity. We must invest the time and money in the necessary resources needed to help our children combat these challenges. I recently hosted a briefing, ``Childhood Obesity: Factors that are Impacting the Disproportionate Prevalence in Low-Income and Minority Communities,'' to discuss the causes of, and search for solutions to the childhood obesity epidemic. Eating dinner at the dinner table with parents is one of the suggested ways children may develop healthier eating habits. 
   According to research by The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University, the more often children eat dinner with their families, the less likely they are to smoke, drink or use drugs. The research suggested that the conversations that go hand-in-hand with dinner will help parents learn more about their children's lives and better understand the challenges they face. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 62 to support the goals and ideals of a National Children and Families Day.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AUTHORIZING USE OF ROTUNDA FOR CEREMONY TO AWARD CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR TO THE TUSKEGEE AIRMEN -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 78, which authorizes the use of the Capitol Rotunda for a ceremony to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Tuskegee Airmen. I strongly support the resolution because it is an appropriate and fitting tribute to one of the greatest groups of the Greatest Generation. 
   On July 19, 1941, the American Air Force created an all black flight training program at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. The Tuskegee Airmen were not only unique in their military record, but they inspired revolutionary reform in the Armed Forces, paving the way for integration of the Armed Services in the U.S. 
   The first class of cadets began in July of 1941 with 13 men, all of whom had college degrees, some with PhDs and all had pilot's licenses. From all accounts, the training of the Tuskegee Airmen was an experiment established to prove that ``coloreds'' were incapable of operating expensive and complex combat aircraft. Stationed in the segregated South, the black cadets were denied rifles. 
   The Tuskegee Airmen were credited with 261 aircraft destroyed, 148 aircraft damaged, 15,553 combat sorties and 1,578 missions over Italy and North Africa. They destroyed or damaged over 950 units of ground transportation and escorted more than 200 bombing missions. ``We proved that the antidote to racism is excellence in performance,'' said retired LTC Herbert Carter, who started his military career as a pilot and maintenance officer with the Tuskegee Airmen's 99th Fighter Squadron. Clearly, the experiment, as it was called, was an unqualified success. 
   The Tuskegee Airmen were awarded 3 Presidential Unit Citations, 150 Distinguished Flying Crosses and Legions of Merit, along with The Red Star of Yugoslavia, 9 Purple Hearts, 14 Bronze Stars and more than 700 Air Medals and clusters. On February 28, 2006, the House passed H. Con. Res. 1259, authorizing the award of a Congressional Gold Medal on behalf of the Tuskegee Airmen. The President signed the legislation and it became Public Law 109-213 on April 11, 2006. The concurrent resolution before us authorizes the use of the Capitol Rotunda on March 29, 2007, for the award ceremony. 
   I would like to thank Congressman RANGEL for his tenacity in seeing to it that the contributions of Tuskegee Airmen are fully recognized and acknowledged by the people of the United States. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from South Carolina, and I particularly thank him for his work and for the work of the Budget Committee and I look forward to a bipartisan, cooperative effort towards the agenda that all of us are committed to, and that is a budget that responds to the needs of the American people. 
   And so I think it is important to at least address what I think as a member of the Homeland Security Committee and the committees dealing with our judiciary issues in this Nation and foreign affairs to be able to at least assess what I think the Budget Committee attempted to do, and that is to cure the ills here in America. 
   One of the ills is to highlight where we are today with this number one issue that I hear about in my district in Houston and all over America which is the loss of jobs. And 63,000 jobs were lost last month. When we look at the analysis, we can see that, unfortunately, the present administration is number two in the infusion into the job market. And that is the testimony that Americans will make about when they think the economy is churning. This administration falls as number two in the lack of job creation. So this budget attempts to be a job creator, and I think it does it very well. How does it do that? It does it by giving relief to the middle class, so even as they are struggling with loss of jobs, we are recognizing there is a value to giving tax relief. 
   So someone got up on the floor and talked about we are, in essence, spending dollars. I must say that I hope we can find a way to bring our troops home. That is $120 billion. But this budget is the kind of tax cut that I want to endorse. It is, of course, AMT relief. Let me find out my friends on the other side of the aisle that want to get rid of the alternative minimum tax relief that is given and don't want to give it to those middle class, hardworking Americans. 
   An extension of the child tax credit which benefits, again, working Americans. The marriage penalty relief, 10 percent bracket, estate tax relief, research and experimentation tax credit. I believe that today Bill Gates was indicating how many jobs are generated as we promote R&D research. 
   Deduction for State and local sales tax. States like the State of Texas, how many of you want to reject that kind of relief for hardworking Texans and others who have State and local sales tax and cannot get deductions? This is what the Democratic budget stands for. 
   Small business expensing. I consider small businesses the backbone of America. They create jobs. They created jobs in Houston. They created jobs in Jackson, Mississippi. They created jobs in Utah and South Carolina and New York and California. That is the crux of what this budget stands for. 
   At the same time, of course, let me suggest to my colleagues that it does not ignore the relief that we need in education and infrastructure. It invests in highways, water, and other infrastructure. It protects concerns that I have like NASA and the Children's Health Insurance Program and like the relief for education and many of the programs that provide relief for poor and minority children. 
   Let me conclude by saying this is the kind of budget that I want to affirm, a working America budget, a middle class budget. This is a good budget. I know we can do this in a bipartisan way. Support this budget and support America.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 312, the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for FY 2009, introduced by my distinguished colleague from South Carolina, Chairman SPRATT. 
   I wish to thank our great Speaker, Ms. PELOSI, for never letting us forget that we are here for one reason only, and that is to address the real needs and priorities of Americans. 
   Finally, let me thank the remarkable leadership team which has worked long, hard, and tireless to keep us informed, cooperative, and united in our resolve to do the necessary work to make America better. 
   Our Republican colleagues ask if we can afford the Democratic budget ..... and I ask--How we can afford to continue to cheat the American people? What we can not afford is to continue with the Bush Administration's fiscal irresponsibility which has led us to almost $9.6 trillion dollar deficit. What we can not afford is to hear rhetoric from the other side of the aisle about balancing the debt and curbing taxes while the administration they support continues to dig deeper and deeper into the deficit. Let's not ask how we can afford to support the Democratic budget, let's ask how we can not afford to support it. 
   EDUCATION
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This budget provides greater funding to our nation's schools and colleges. The increased spending can and should be used for several purposes, including Head Start, Title I Compensatory Education program, and job training and national service programs. It could also be used to increase the Federal share of the cost for educating handicapped children, and to help improve access to colleges, and broadening access to Hispanic Serving and Historically Black Colleges and Universities. 
   SCHIP 
   We must not only be economically healthy, but assist in the physical health of our citizens. This budget will properly fund SCHIP, to help one of our most vulnerable populations--children. Our President proclaims his support for securing our nation's current and future economic success. However, it is our children that will bring forth a successful future. We need to invest in tomorrow by investing in them today. This starts with their physical well-being. Children, who cannot see the doctor when they are sick, will not be in anyone's classroom. 
   AFRICAN-AMERICANS--HEALTH AND EDUCATION IN TEXAS
   For African Americans, health and education concerns spill beyond budgetary issues into the criminal justice consequences. In Texas, over 87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to approximately 48,000 African-Americans attending college or university. 
   The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus the number of young people in college, particularly in the African-American community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education continues to be one of the main pathways to social and economic mobility, particularly in the African-American and Hispanic communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES THAT ALL AMERICANS SHOULD PARTICIPATE IN MOMENT OF SILENCE TO REFLECT UPON SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 953 ``Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that all Americans should participate in a moment of silence to reflect upon the service and sacrifice of members of the United States Armed Forces both at home and abroad,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, Representative Joe Knollenberg. This praiseworthy legislation will honor the lives, the work, and the memory of the countless men and women who everyday sacrifice their lives for our freedom. 
   Our great Nation officially celebrates and honors the accomplishments and sacrifices of veterans, patriots, and leaders who fought for freedom, but does not yet officially pay tribute to those who currently serve in the Armed Forces. 
   Accordingly, I praise those individuals who currently continue to accept the challenges posed by fighting for our liberty. Let us look to the sky to honor the memory of these heroes who give their lives for the foundations of our democracy. These individuals represent the best in all of us and it is in their memory that we should devote ourselves to continuing what they began. By humbling ourselves and reserving a moment of silence, we give reverence and recognition for those who make the ultimate sacrifice. Everyday, the men and women of our Armed Forces commence on a risky journey that many brave ones travel. In passing this important legislation, we effectively recall the purpose for which our elite Armed Forces are so dedicated. 
   Mr. Speaker, there are currently more than 1,500,000 active and reserve component members of the Armed Forces serving the United States in support and defense of the values and freedom that all Americans cherish. Our Nation's brave men and women in uniform are willing to give the ultimate sacrifice in order to ensure the freedoms enjoyed by every American remain intact. The debt we owe our Nation's armed services cannot be quantified, the respect and admiration felt by all Americans hardly expressed; it is imperative that we show the men and women who offer their lives each day to protect our own just how much their courage means to us. 
   Mr. Speaker, words cannot convey or adequately repay the debt that is owed. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that are universally felt; however, we can pay those men and women of the Armed Forces no greater tribute than to honor their sacrifice with a moment of silence. The service that these brave individuals provide is priceless and will never go unrecognized. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in so doing, giving our men and women in uniform the respect and recognition they deserve.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 312, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1036, the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for FY 2009, introduced by my distinguished colleague from South Carolina, Chairman SPRATT. 
   This Rule will allow this body to debate the economic goals and policies of this great Nation. At a time, when this country is on the verge of a recession and the housing market is at one of its worst points in history, there is little else that is as important as our Nation's fiscal security. 
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the maintenance of historically Black Colleges and Universities. This budget provides greater funding to our Nation's schools and colleges. 
   We must not only be economically healthy, but assist in the physical health of our citizens. This budget will properly fund SCHIP, to help one of our most vulnerable populations--children. Our President proclaims his support for securing our Nation's current and future economic success. However, it is our children that will bring forth a successful future. We need to invest in tomorrow by investing in them today. This starts with their physical well-being. Children, who cannot see the doctor when they are sick, will not be in anyone's classroom. 
   For African Americans, health and education concerns spill beyond budgetary issues into the criminal justice consequences. In Texas, over 87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to approximately 48,000 African-Americans attending college or university. 
   The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus the number of young people in college, particularly in the African-American community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education continues to be one of the main pathways to social and economic mobility, particularly in the African-American and Hispanic communities. 
   Under the Republican Budget the national debt continues to explode. The gross federal debt reached $9.0 trillion at the end of 2007. The CBO projects that the debt will rise by a total of $3.9 trillion at the end of 2008. This unprecedented rise in debt puts our President in the history books. During the seven years of the current Administration, the government has posted the highest deficits in this Nation's history.The President's 2009 Budget continues the failed policies that brought us to this point. 
   The amount of foreign debt has doubled since 2001, with most of this increased debt purchased by foreign lenders. Since 2001, the increases in foreign holdings of Treasury securities account for over 80 percent of the newly accumulated public debt--a trend that has more than doubled foreign holding of Treasury securities. 
   This high level of indebtedness to foreign investors heightens the economy's exposure to potential instability with additional burdens on our children and grandchildren. 
   Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to claim that the budget resolution being considered on the floor this week raises taxes, when in fact, the budget resolution does not raise taxes by one penny. The budget resolution accommodates tax cuts and indeed prioritizes tax cuts that would benefit middle-income families, while ensuring that the burden of paying for the tax cuts will not fall undeservedly on our future generations. 
   Section 501 of the budget resolution specifically calls for additional middle-income tax relief subject to the pay-as-you-go rule, including but not limited to: 
   AMT relief (both immediate/temporary, and more permanent reform measures); 
   Extension of ``middle-class'' elements of 2001 tax cuts: child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and 10 percent bracket; 
   Eliminating the estate tax on all but a minute fraction of estates; 
   Extension of the research and experimentation tax credit; 
   Extension of the deduction for state and local taxes; 
   Extension of small business expensing; 
   Enactment of a tax credit for school construction bonds; and 
   Tax incentives for energy efficiency and renewable energy which are accommodated in a separate deficit-neutral reserve fund. 
   The budget resolution honors PAYGO and the new House rules on using reconciliation in a fiscally responsible way. By abiding by the pay-as-you-go principle, we immediately begin digging our way out of the mountains of debt that have accumulated as a result of the Bush Administration's fiscal policies. 
   The President's budget and the Republican alternatives violate PAYGO and the fiscal responsibility that reconciliation is intended to achieve, by proposing tax cuts that are not offset. 
   The sunsets for the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts were part of the tax legislation which Republicans voted for and passed. The expiration of the tax cuts is their policy. The Democratic budget actually calls for the extension of many of these tax cuts, but responsibly requires that tax cut extensions, like other policies, must be fiscally sound, and not make the deficit worse. 
   This important piece of legislation gives us a budget that is balanced fiscally and morally.  It does not sacrifice the many programs and services that this Nation needs for a war that the President seems never to end. 
   Defense of our Nation is important; however, we must not support only one portion of the budget to the detriment of everything else. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 1036 and the Democratic Budget for FY2009.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 979, RECOMMENDING THAT HARRIET MIERS AND JOSHUA BOLTEN BE FOUND IN CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS, AND ADOPTION OF H. RES. 980, AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY TO INITIATE OR INTERVENE IN JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE CERTAIN SUBPOENAS -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleagues of the Judiciary Committee, and I thank my colleagues of the Rules Committee. 
   Madam Speaker, I stand on this floor with a very heavy heart. It is a heavy heart compounded by the fact that Harriet Miers is my friend. We practiced law together in the State of Texas. We worked together. And so it is very difficult to stand here today and to acknowledge what is an enormous crisis in our Government, and that is the lack of recognition of the constitutional premise of the three equal branches of Government. I came yesterday to talk of the embeddedness of the Constitution not only in many books but also in the hearts of Americans. When I go home to Texas, people still ask the question: What are you doing about the U.S. attorney situation? What happened to the fairness and integrity of the appointment process? The American people want to know. We are now doing their bidding. They want us to be able to clear the air. 
   As a member of the Judiciary Committee, let me tell you, John Conyers has the patience of Job. Over and over again, and Chairwoman Sanchez, over and over again, working with Ranking Member Cannon, said that we wanted to do this in a way that you could come and give information, that information could be transcripted. We will then try to find out the truth. 
   We come here with a broken heart, a humble spirit, but with the Constitution deeply embedded in our heart, recognizing that there is nothing to protect if the President says that he is not involved. 
   Let the Constitution stand. Let us do what we are supposed to do. My friends, vote for this in a bipartisan way so that the Constitution remains sacred in our hearts and in this country.  
    Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 982, which provides that upon adoption of the rule, both H. Res. 979 recommending that the House of Representatives find former White House Counsel Harriet Miers and White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten in contempt of Congress for their refusal to comply with subpoenas issued by the Committee on the Judiciary and H. Res. 980--Authorizing the Committee on the Judiciary to initiate or intervene in judicial proceedings to enforce certain subpoenas are adopted. Both of the resolutions were introduced by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, the Honorable John Conyers, Jr. 
   H. RES. 979 
    This resolution highlights the accountability issues that this body has continued to have with the Bush administration. This committee made attempt after attempt to secure critical information voluntarily from both former White House Counsel Harriet Miers and White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten. At no point did they cooperate and comply with our requests. Even as this committee directed their appearance by subpoena, the White House sought to avert our inquiries by citing executive privilege. 
    Instead, the White House offered this committee a very limited inquiry, completely controlled by providing: (1) virtually no access to internal White House documents, (2) no questioning regarding internal White House discussions, and (3) no interview transcripts. The White House is not bluffing with this act of defiance. Rather, it seems the Bush administration wants to test, and attempt to expand, the limits of presidential power. 
    Madam Speaker, it was on July 12, 2007 that Ms. Harriet Miers was asked to testify before the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law investigating the removal of U.S. attorneys by the Bush administration, and did not attend. That same day, the subcommittee's Chair, the Honorable Linda S&#225;nchez, undertook the preliminary steps necessary to declare Miers in contempt. The subcommittee voted 7-5 that there was no legal justification for Ms. Miers's failing to appear pursuant to the subpoena. 
    Notwithstanding this blatant affront to the House Judiciary Committee, Republican Members allowed party affiliation to trump institutional responsibility, just as they had when they controlled Congress. The Minority continues to make excuses for the Bush administration's defiance, and appears content to let the 
    President slight the subcommittee by instructing both Ms. Miers and Mr. Bolten to not testify. 
    H. RES. 980 AND CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT 
   Congresssional oversight is an implied rather than an enumerated power. My colleagues across the aisle may make the argument that nothing explicitly grants this body the authority to conduct inquiries or investigations of the  Executive, to have access to records or materials held by the Executive, or to issue subpoenas for documents or testimony from the Executive. 
    However, congressional investigations sustain and vindicate our role in our constitutional scheme of separated powers. The rich history of congressional investigations from the failed St. Clair expedition in 1792 through Teapot Dome, Watergate, and Iran-Contra, has established, in law and practice, the nature and contours of congressional prerogatives necessary to maintain the integrity of the legislative role. Numerous Supreme Court precedents recognize a broad and encompassing power in this body to engage in oversight and investigation that would reach all sources of information necessary for carrying out its legislative function. Without a countervailing constitutional privilege or this body self-imposing a statutory restriction on our authority, this chamber, along with our colleagues in the Senate, have plenary power to compel information needed to discharge our legislative functions from the Executive, private individuals, and companies. 
    In McGrain v. Daugherty, 1927, the U.S. Supreme Court deemed the power of inquiry, with the accompanying process to enforce it, ``an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function.'' Senate Rule XXVI, 26, and House Rule XI, 11, presently empower all standing committees and subcommittees to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documents. This chamber was given an implied power of oversight by the U.S. Constitution; that power has supported by our 3rd branch of government, the Supreme Court; we ourselves have expressed this authority in our Senate and House Rules, and yet two attorneys under the direction of the White House continue to tell us we do not have the proper authority. 
    H.R. 5230, CONTEMPT OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SUBPOENA AUTHORITY ACT OF 2008 [110TH] 
    On February 6, I introduced legislation that would amend Title 28, of the United States Code and grant this chamber the statutory authority to bring a civil action to enforce and secure a declaratory judgment to prevent a threatened refusal or failure to comply with any subpoena or order for the production of documents, the answering of any deposition or interrogatory, or the securing of testimony issued by the House or any of its committees or subcommittees. 
    Once we pass H.R. 5230, we should have no further need to adopt resolutions for authorization to enforce certain subpoenas; we would already hold that statutory authority. As it stands now, we must collectively support both H. Res. 979 and H. Res. 980 under H. Res. 982, the adopted rule. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 982 an important piece of legislation that allows for not only accountability but enforcement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NEW DIRECTION FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - August 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentleman from Vermont for his thoughtful amendment, and I thank Chairman Dingell as well for helping him, and the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Boucher, and all of our Members for dialoguing on this very crucial issue. 
   I happen to represent the University of Houston that has brought a wind research project to Houston, a $24 million project, and I know that Texas has enormous amount of commitment to wind. 
   This research grant program will help other universities look at issues such as fossil fuel and the efficiency of it, refineries and the efficiency of it, exploration and the efficiency of it in other places other than public lands. So I am here to support this amendment and as well to support the underlying energy bill, H.R. 3221. 
   I thank the gentleman, Mr. Welch. Universities around America will look forward to this grant program, including Texas Southern University and many other universities that we have in my district.  
   Mr. Chairman, first and foremost, I think it is imperative that we all agree on the vital importance of America achieving energy independence in the 21st century. We must end our addiction to foreign sources of oil, most of which are found in regions of the world which are unstable and in some cases, opposed to our interests. Accordingly, there is no issue more integral to our economic and national security than energy independence. 
   Although I must admit that I do have reservations about certain aspects of this bill, I nevertheless support it as a step in the right direction of America achieving energy independence. H.R. 3221, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act is important and multifaceted legislation which will make substantial strides towards energy independence and security for our Nation, while also encouraging the development of innovative new technologies, creating new jobs, reducing carbon emissions, protecting consumers, shifting production to clean and renewable energy, and modernizing our energy infrastructure. 
   I would like to begin by commending the Speaker of the House, Ms. PELOSI, for her leadership in introducing this legislation and bringing it to the floor. The bill we have before us today represents the work of eleven House committees, and it fulfills the Democrats' promise to bring a comprehensive new direction to the people of the United States. 
   In addition to being from the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years I have been the Chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of energy Braintrusts designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. My Energy Braintrusts were designed to be a call of action to all of the sectors who comprise the American and international energy industry, to the African American community, and to the nation as a whole. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. Bringing together thoughtful yet disparate voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic  which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a Nation achieve energy security and energy independence. 
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. The energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. That is why it is crucial that while seeking solutions to secure more energy independence within this country, we must strike a balance that will still support an environment for continued growth in the oil and gas industry, which I might add, creates millions of jobs across the entire country. 
   We have many more miles to go before we achieve energy independence. Consequently, I am willing, able, and eager to continue working with Houston's and our Nation's energy industry to ensure that we are moving expeditiously on the path to crafting an environmentally sound and economically viable energy policy. 
   Furthermore, I think it is imperative that we involve small, minority and women owned, and independent energy companies in this process because they represent some of the hard working Americans and Houstonians who are on the forefront of energy efficient strategies to achieving energy independence. 
   This bill contains numerous important provisions. It represents a major national investment in renewable energy that has the potential to create 3 million ``green'' jobs. Further, it provides training opportunities for American workers, particularly our disadvantaged groups and our brave veterans, to fill these new positions. It gives small businesses the tools they need to be more energy efficient, including technical assistance. It encourages research and innovation into new energy technology, including biofuels, carbon capture, and solar energy. It encourages mass transit and alternative fuels, it protects Federal lands and wildlife, and it promotes the efficient use of energy. 
   However, I am concerned that H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2007, contains provisions repealing tax incentives for oil and gas companies which may have a negative effect on access to important sources of energy. In particular, I am concerned that the domestic manufacturing deduction, Section 199 of H.R. 2776, could discourage new domestic oil and natural gas investment by making these investments comparatively less competitive than competing foreign investments. Moving forward, I think it would be prudent for this Congress to consider linking an increase on taxes with an increase in access to domestic exploration of available sources of energy, such as the Gulf Coast. 
   According to the U.S. Minerals Management Service (MMS), America's deep seas on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) contain 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas (the U.S. consumes 23 TCF per year) and 86 billion barrels of oil (the U.S. imports 4.5 billion per year). Even with all these energy resources, the U.S. sends more than $300 billion (and countless American jobs) overseas every year for energy we can create at home. I believe that we should mandate environmentally safe and efficient exploration techniques in the Gulf Coast which energy companies have demonstrated a willingness and capacity to utilize. By ensuring access to increasing sources of energy in an environmentally conscious way, I believe we can decrease our dependence on foreign oil. 
   This bill also contains a crucial international component. Global climate change is a truly global problem. It is real; it is imminent; and it is our responsibility to work with the rest of the international community to develop a coordinated global response to this potentially devastating phenomenon. This legislation calls for the United States to re-engage and lead international efforts to reach an agreement requiring binding emissions reduction commitments from all major emitters, including China, India, and Brazil. A truly monumental diplomatic effort is needed to begin to arrest the catastrophic effects of climate change, and this bill is an important step toward beginning global negotiations to establish a coordinated response. 
   Mr. Chairman, I was pleased to work with the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to incorporate important language in this legislation to ensure that its provisions and benefits are available to some of our nation's disadvantaged populations. My language, seen in Section 2102 of H.R. 3221, guarantees that Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and other Minority Serving Institutions are able to participate in the visits and exchanges between scientific researchers of the United States and other nations provided for in this bill. My amendment would also seek to include minority- and women-owned businesses in these exchange programs. 
   Additionally, I worked with the Chairman and the Committee to include language that global climate change negotiations would address the perspectives and concerns of indigenous and tribal populations, who often bear the brunt of climate change but have traditionally been neglected in the negotiation process. 
   Furthermore, I support innovative solutions to our national energy crisis such as my legislation which alleviates our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels by utilizing loan 
   guarantees to promote the development of traditional and cellulosic ethanol technology. 
   The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. The world's greatest petroleum reserves reside in regions of high geopolitical risk, including 57 percent of which are in the Persian Gulf. 
   Replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, it can end our addiction to foreign oil. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our Nation's petroleum consumption. 
   Along with traditional production of ethanol from corn, cellulosic ethanol can be produced domestically from a variety of feedstocks, including switchgrass, corn stalks and municipal solid wastes, which are available throughout our nation. Cellulosic ethanol also relies on its own byproducts to fuel the refining process, yielding a positive energy balance. Whereas the potential production of traditional corn-based ethanol is about 10 billion gallons per year, the potential production of cellulosic ethanol is estimated to be 60 billion gallons per year. 
   In addition to ensuring access to more abundant sources of energy, replacing petroleum use with ethanol will help reduce U.S. carbon emissions, which are otherwise expected to increase by 80 percent by 2025. Cellulosic ethanol can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 87 percent. Thus, transitioning from foreign oil to ethanol will protect our environment from dangerous carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. 
   I also commend my colleague from Vermont, Mr. WELCH, for his amendment which would establish a grant program for colleges and universities to invest in sustainable and efficient energy projects. I commend the University of Houston, which led the Lone Star Wind Alliance succeed in bringing one of the Department of Energy's large turbine-testing facilities to the Texas Gulf Coast. This major step forward in developing clean, renewable wind energy will result in the University of Houston directing a $24 million world-class research and test facility in Texas. This will ensure that Texas becomes a global leader in wind energy technology, which will be assisted by pledges from the Lone Star Wind Alliance of $18 million, by the Texas Legislature of $5 million, and $2 million from the Department of Energy. 
   Mr. Chairman, this comprehensive legislation addresses the full range of concerns raised by global climate change. It offers wide-ranging solutions to the serious problems we, as a Nation and as an international community, face. It demonstrates the ongoing commitment of this Democratic Congress to address these important issues, and to provide tangible and beneficial solutions. 
   I urge my colleagues to be balanced and prudent in their approach in addressing our energy needs. By investing in renewable energy and increasing access to potential sources of energy, I believe we can be partners with responsible members of America's energy producing community in our collective goal of reaching energy independence.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise in support of H.R. 3222, the ``Defense Appropriations Act of 2008.'' I commend the leadership of Chairman Obey and Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Murtha for his patient and careful crafting of this bill, which relieves our troops and helps our military families. The committee carefully separated the funding from the Iraq War funding. 
   Speaking of Chairman Murtha, let me say also that historians will record that it was he who awakened and educated the Nation regarding the failure and folly of the Bush Administration's policy in Iraq when he courageously spoke this truth to power: The war in Iraq is not going as advertised. It is a flawed policy wrapped in illusion. The American public is way ahead of us. The United States and coalition troops have done all they can in Iraq, but it is time for a change in direction. Our military is suffering. The future of our country is at risk. We can not continue on the present course. It is evident that continued military action in Iraq is not in the best interest of the United States of America, the Iraqi people or the Persian Gulf Region. 
   The principled stand of the gentleman from Pennsylvania changed the course of America history by signaling the beginning of the end of the Iraq War. More importantly, Chairman Murtha's actions have and will result in the saving of countless thousands of lives of brave young servicemen and women that would otherwise be lost trying to salvage the Administration's ill-conceived and terribly mismanaged war in Iraq. I cannot thank you enough for all you have done for our county. 
   In supporting this legislation, I stand in strong support of our troops who have performed magnificently in battle with a grace under pressure that is distinctively American. I stand with the American people, who have placed their trust in the President, the Vice-President, and the former Secretary of Defense, each of whom abused the public trust and patience. 
   I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid more than $400 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,664 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. For these reasons, Madam Speaker, I stand fully, strongly, and unabashedly in support of H.R. 3222. 
   Mr. Chairman, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud of that vote. And I have consistently voted against the Administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing national priorities. 
   But I strongly believe that when a nation sends its sons and daughters into harms way, it has an obligation to ensure that they have everything they need to wage the battle, emerge victorious, and return home safely to their loved ones and to a grateful nation. That is why I proudly support this legislation. H.R. 3222 provides for the security of our nation and addresses that responsibility squarely, fully funding our troops so that they are prepared for whatever emergencies may arise, providing them with first class weapons and equipment, and ensuring that they and their families are cared for properly. 
   At the same time, H.R. 3222 recognizes our obligation to meet the recent dependence on the use of contractors with increased support for their management and oversight. It likewise makes a commitment to fiscal responsibility. In this regard, I note that the amount appropriated in this bill, $459.6 billion, represents an increase of nearly $40 billion over the previous year but is $4 billion less than the amount requested by the Administration. 
   Mr. Chairman let me briefly address some of the important components of this legislation. I think it important that all Americans know that H.R. 3222 achieves the following .critical objectives: (1) keeps our commitments to our troops and their families; (2) prepares our forces to meet future needs; (3) imposes fiscal discipline on the Pentagon; and (4) prohibits permanent military bases in Iraq and the use of torture by American forces everywhere. 
   Specifically, Mr. Chairman, H.R. 3222 addresses equipment shortfalls in the Guard and Reserve by providing $925 million, $635 million above 2007, specifically to address equipment shortfalls in order to help forces meet the demands of overseas deployments and respond to natural disasters here at home. This amount meets the requirements identified by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau in the ``Essential 10 Equipment Requirements for the Global War on Terror.'' 
   The legislation supports military families by providing $2.9 billion, $558.4 million above the President's request, for programs including childcare centers, education programs and the family advocacy program which provides support to military families affected by the demands of war and episodes of child or spouse abuse. 
   In the important area of medical treatment and healthcare, the bill provides $22.957 billion, $1.7 billion above 2007 and $416 million above the President's request. The bill rightly rejects the President's proposal to inflict $1.9 billion in TRICARE fee and premium increases on our troops and makes much needed investments in improving the Defense Department's electronic medical records systems and fostering better coordination between the Defense Department and the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
   I particularly commend Chairman Murtha for his successful efforts to secure more than $400 million in funding to conduct research and treat the increasing incidence of post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, among American servicemen and women. And I especially appreciate his commitment to work with me to establish a PTSD facility at Riverside General Hospital, located in the 18th Congressional District of Texas, to treat PTSD in veterans, whether on active duty, discharged, or on leave in the metropolitan Houston area, including Harris and surrounding counties. There are nearly 200,000 military veterans in Harris County alone and Riverside General Hospital has proven itself capable of providing psychiatric, medical, emergency medical, inpatient, and outpatient services to crisis populations. 
   Riverside General Hospital, by the way, was formerly known as the Houston Negro Hospital and was founded in 1926 in memory of Lt. John Halm Cullinan, 344th FA, 90th Division of the American Expeditionary Forces. Lt. Cullinan was one of the thousands of African Americans who risked life and limb to defend America and its allies at a time when those of his race did not enjoy the legal rights they fought so hard to secure for others. 
   Mr. Chairman, there is an unmet need for more medical facilities specializing in post-traumatic stress disorder located in underserved urban areas. Access to post-traumatic stress disorder treatment is especially important since veterans living in such areas are less likely to be diagnosed and treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. Riverside General Hospital is uniquely positioned to this need and I look forward to working with this Defense Appropriation Sub-Committee to bring this historic project to fruition. 
   I also strongly approve of the allocation of $1.252 billion above the President's request to  repair barracks, improve child care facilities, and improve community services, to address the strain put on facilities by changes in force structure, base closures, and a global repositioning of forces all while meeting the demands of war. Similarly, the appropriation of $268.1 million, $141.9 million above the President's request, for perimeter security force protection and related security improvements, to protect bases, schools, hospitals, base housing, churches and childcare centers from terrorist attacks makes sense in light of the recent failed terrorist plot at Fort Dix in New Jersey. As does the $15 billion, $1.6 billion above 2007, set aside to ensure there are no out-of-pocket expenses for service personnel and support the privatization of housing for military families. 
   Mr. Chairman, American troops are the best in the world because they are the best equipped and the best trained. H.R. 3222 ensures that will remain the case by providing $7.548 billion, a 13 percent increase for all home-stationing training, so that our troops are well prepared for any eventual deployment. 
   The legislation also takes into account the fact that the size of our Army and Marine Corps must be increased if we are to reduce the pressure to extend troop deployments. The bill provides funds to covers the costs of adding 7,000 new soldiers and 5,000 new marines. 
   Finally, H.R. 3222 provides $76.229 billion, $1.112 billion above the President's request and $508 million above 2007, for research, development, testing, and evaluation of weapons systems, and military medical research. 
   Mr. Chairman, the bill before represents responsible, visionary, and competent policy making. Our vote today will put the House on record squarely against the Bush Administration's policy of looking the other way while the Iraqi government fails to govern a 
   country worthy of a free people with as much commitment and dedication to the security and happiness of its citizens as has been shown by the heroic American servicemen and women who risked their lives and, in the case of over 3,600 fallen heroes, lost their lives to win for the Iraqi people the chance to draft their own constitution, hold their own free elections, establish their own government, and build a future of peace and prosperity for themselves and their posterity. 
   Mr. Chairman, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is a product of compromise. The bill before us is no different. If it was left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract provisions which we think would improve the quality of life for our brave men and women in uniform. Indeed, during this first session of the 110th Congress, I have offered several amendments to do just that. 
   For example, I offered an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, H.R. 1591, that would have led to the redeployment and return of American troops. It would achieve this objective by terminating the authority granted by Congress to the President in the 2002 Authorization for the Use of Military Force in Iraq because the objectives for which the authorization was granted have all been achieved. Specifically, Congress authorized the President to use military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives: to disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could threaten the security of the United States and international peace in the Persian Gulf region; to change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors; to bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001; to ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al Qaeda; and to enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq. 
   Thanks to the skill and valor of the Armed Forces of the United States we now know for certain that Iraq does not possess weapons of mass destruction. Thanks to the tenacity and heroism of American troops, Saddam Hussein was deposed, captured, and dealt with by the Iraqi people in such a way that neither he nor his Baathist Party will ever again pose a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors in the region. Nor will the regime ever acquire and provide weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists. Also, the American military has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in Iraq remotely responsible for the 911 attack on our country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been enforced. 
   In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved, most with spectacular success thanks to the professionalism and superior skill of our service men and women. The point of my amendment was to recognize, acknowledge, and honor this fact. 
   Another amendment, this one to the Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 1585, required the Secretary of Defense to study and report back to Congress the financial and emotional impact of multiple deployments on the families of those soldiers who serve multiple tours overseas. 
   Words cannot explain the pain and the sense of pride that some families feel when they say good-bye to a loved one. Behind those brave smiles, hugs, and kisses is an undying and unnerving uncertainty about what can happen to a spouse, child, father, or mother. Depending on the extent of that soldier's injury a family can suffer serious economic consequences as a result, not to mention the emotional impact of seeing a loved one in that state. Even under the best of circumstances, where a soldier serves multiple terms and returns with no major injuries, valuable time is lost between a parent and child and between spouses that can never be returned. 
   One in five soldiers suffers from depression, anxiety or stress. Likewise 20 percent face marital problems including divorce or legal separation from their spouse. Military families need greater psychological, emotional, and organizational assistance according to the results of a new survey released March 28 of this year by the National Military Family Association, NMFA. The study, ``Cycles of Deployment Report,'' which focused on the needs of military families, shows service members and military families are experiencing increased levels of anxiety, fatigue, and stress. In response, NMFA outlined recommendations for meeting these challenges amid multiple and extended deployments, increased rates at which service members are called upon for service, and the heavy reliance on National Guard and Reserve forces. 
   Military families have also expressed concern that when entering a second or third deployment, their loved ones carry unresolved anxieties and expectations from the last deployment(s). 
   While they may have gained knowledge of resources available to them, service members who have been deployed multiple times report being more fatigued and increasingly concerned about their family relationships. 
   Mr. Chairman, at bottom, H.R. 3222 ensures that U.S. forces in the field have all of the resources they require. Second, it improves healthcare for returning service members and veterans. Third, it imposes fiscal restraint upon the Administration and Pentagon. 
   Mr. Chairman, before I conclude, I want to take a few minutes to discuss why the American people believe so strongly that the time has come to an end the policy of not placing any demands or conditions on American military assistance to the Government of Iraq. 
   As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, and a former senior member of the NSC, brilliantly describes in his essay, ``The Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A Retrospective Analysis Of The Reconstruction,'' in ``Middle East Review of International Affairs'' (December 2006), our trust and patience has been repaid by a record of incompetence unmatched in the annals of American foreign policy. 
   The Bush Administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored intelligence that contradicted its own views. 
   It is clear now that the Administration simply never believed in the necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the Office of the Secretary of Defense, OSD, and the White House Office of the Vice President, OVP, worked together to ensure that the State Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the reconstruction of Iraq. 
   The Administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would therefore be capable of running the country and providing Iraqis with basic services. They likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would largely remain cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The result of all this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic planning for the postwar environment. 
   As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. The dearth of planning for the provision of security and basic services stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those responsibilities. 
   But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the  need to mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it brought the entire offensive to a halt. 
   It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in Iraq. 
   The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment. 
   Making matters worse, the Administration arrogantly denied the United Nations overall authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. had far more expertise and experience in nation building. 
   The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the Administration's claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military and security services. 
   Mr. Chairman, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain, DDR, the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to 
   entice, cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an outlaw militia. 
   By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency. 
   The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to create an Iraqi Governing Council, IGC, which laid the foundation for many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed. 
   Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush administration set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the wrong problems. 
   This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were playing ``whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to take over by militias. 
   Finally, Mr. Chairman, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central government itself. 
   All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
   Mr. Chairman, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   Mr. Chairman, the bill before us is not asking us to expand or extend the war in Iraq. I would not and will not do that. On the contrary, this bill puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home where we can ``care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' This bill helps to repair the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. This bill brings long overdue oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3222, the ``Defense Appropriations Act of 2008.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee and I do applaud him for his consistent and impeccable commitment to civil liberties and civil rights. 
   Mr. Speaker, this administration has the law to protect the American people. Let no one come to this floor and suggest that what we are doing tonight is going to save lives because last night we passed legislation that indicated that foreign-to-foreign communication had no barriers, no barriers for those who are seeking intelligence. 
   Yet when an American was involved, the Bill of Rights, the fourth amendment, civil liberties with the underpinnings, and therefore a court intervened.     
   Homeland security is not a Republican issue. It is an issue for all Americans--all of us. Not one of us who sang ``God Bless America'' on the steps of this House will allow anyone to undermine the security of America. 
   The legislation last night offered by the Majority gave the Administration everything that they needed, but what we're doing here tonight, we are shredding the Constitution. We are tearing up the Bill of Rights because we are telling Americans that no matter what your business is, you are subject to the unscrupulous, undisciplined, irresponsible scrutiny of the Attorney General and others without court intervention. 
   This is not the day to play politics. It is to important to balance civil liberties along with the homeland security and the protection needs of America. I feel confident that the House FISA Bill does do that. 
   Shame on the other body for failing to recognize that we can secure America by securing the American people with fair security laws and by giving them their civil liberties. 
   I would ask my colleagues to defeat this so that we can go back to the bill that protects the civil liberties of Americans and provides homeland security. I ask my colleagues to support the Bill of Rights and National Security.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to S. 1927. Had the Bush Administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the two preceding years, we would not be in the position of debating legislation that has such a profound impact on the national security and on American values and civil liberties in the crush of exigent circumstances. More often that not, it is true as the saying goes that haste makes waste. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation before us is intended to fill a gap in the Nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell, by amending the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. But in reality it eviscerates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution and represents an unwarranted transfer of power from the courts to the Executive Branch and a Justice Department led by an Attorney General whose reputation for candor and integrity is, to put it charitably, subject to considerable doubt. 
   Mr. Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing and I am far from persuaded that it needs to be jettisoned or substantially amended. But given the claimed exigent circumstances by the Administration, let me briefly discuss some of the changes to FISA I am prepared to support on a temporary basis, not to exceed 120 days. 
   First, I am prepared to accept temporarily obviating the need to obtain a court order for foreign-to-foreign communications that pass through the United States. But I do insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a ``basket warrant'' without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. There should be an initial 15-day emergency authority so that international surveillance can begin while the warrants are being considered by the Court. And there must also be congressional oversight, requiring the Department of Justice Inspector General to conduct an audit every 60 days of U.S. person communications intercepted under these warrants, to be submitted to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees. Finally, as I have stated, this authority must be of short duration and must expire by its terms in 120 days. 
   In all candor, Mr. Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still nothing on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this Administration, to indicate that they require any legislative response, other than to reaffirm the exclusivity of FISA and insist that it be followed. This could have been accomplished in the 109th 
   Congress by passing H.R. 5371, the ``Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA Act,'' LISTEN Act,'' which I have co-sponsored with the then Ranking Members of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, Mr. CONYERS and Ms. HARMAN. 
   The Bush Administration has not complied with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush Administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important; (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people. 
   Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation before us is not necessary. The bill which a majority of the  House voted to pass last night is more than sufficient to address the intelligence gathering deficiency identified by Director McConnell. That bill, H.R. 3356, provided ample amount of congressional authorization needed to ensure that our intelligence professionals have the tools that they need to protect our Nation, while also safeguarding the rights of law-abiding Americans. That is why I supported H.R. 3356, but cannot support S. 1927. I encourage my colleagues to join me in voting against the unwise and ill-considered S. 1927.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ESTABLISHING AN OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS--Continued -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 895, establishing within the House of Representatives an Office of Congressional Ethics, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Massachusetts, Representative Capuano. This important legislation will establish an independent Office of Congressional Ethics in the House of Representatives that will address concerns about House transparency and accountability. 
   Ethics and legal scandals plagued the Republican Congress. The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw during the 109th Congress resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those involving Jack Abramoff. 
   But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into signed conference reports in the dead of night. 
   The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exits polls indicated that 74 percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very important issue in their choice at the polls.  
   Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one of the top priorities of the new direction Congress. That is why as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate of this critical election, Democrats offered and passed last year an aggressive ethics reform package. Today, we are here to pass yet another piece of ethics legislation, illuminating that this Democratic Congress has nothing to hide. We are committed to accountability and financial transparency and as such will continue to pass ethics legislation until we are satisfied that any and all ethics concerns have been addressed. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the United States. 
   This important legislation amends Rule XXVI, Financial Disclosure, of the Rules of the House by requiring members of the board of the Office of Congressional Ethics to file annual financial disclosure reports with the Clerk of the House. It furthermore Amends Rule XI, Procedures of Committees and Unfinished Business, to permit the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to undertake an investigation upon receipt of a report regarding a referral from the Office of Congressional Ethics and sets forth provisions concerning the public disclosure of board findings. The rules outlined within this legislation state that the board is directed to address any joint allegation within 7 calendar days, ensuring that any and all allegations are expediently handled. Through the creation of the Office of Congressional Ethics, the House will significantly increase the transparency and accountability of its ethics enforcement process through greater timely reporting by a body of individuals who are independent from the House. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that the Members of this House, along with all of the American people, paid fitting tribute to the late President Gerald R. ``Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this House, who did so much to heal our Nation in the aftermath of Watergate. Upon assuming the Presidency, President Ford assured the Nation: ``My fellow Americans, our long National nightmare is over.'' By his words and deeds, President Ford helped turn the country back on the right track. He will be forever remembered for his integrity, good character, and commitment to the national interest. 
   This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public confidence in this institution, we must commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most responsive Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the needs of the American people before those of the lobbyists and special interests. To do that, we must establish an independent Office of Congressional Ethics, and as such I offer my whole-hearted support to this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support H. Res. 895 and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION NEEDS TO LISTEN -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, if you ask Mr. and Mrs. America who are in the rural hamlets and the urban cities across America, they will tell you whether there is a recession or not. If you ask the automobile dealers, the home builders, if you ask the individuals who are attempting to put their children through college or even to make ends meet, they will tell you that bad news is already here; 63,000 jobs were lost last month. 
   I am glad the Democrats are taking the opportunity to strengthen our economy and create jobs. Democratic leaders last week held a second economic forum. The forum convened national experts and talked about how we can create jobs. The New Direction Congress has already passed a bipartisan economic stimulus of which thousands of Americans will be receiving a payment because of the leadership of our Democratic majority. We are helping to create 500,000 jobs. But it is well to recognize that this administration just last month lost 63,000 jobs. 
   What we need to do is bring our troops home, lower health care costs, and increase health care quality. We need to vote in the CHIP bill and stop the President's veto. We need to ensure that we lower energy prices through alternative fuels by creating hundreds of thousands of new green jobs. We have got to make college more affordable and K-12 classrooms more successful. 
   We can empower America with our own initiative and our own genius. But we cannot do it if we have an administration that doesn't listen. Sixty-three thousand jobs lost tells the story, and Mr. and Mrs. America say, ``wake up and provide an opportunity for Americans.'' They want the Democrats to lead and to be able to create the opportunity for the economic engine that will save jobs and create jobs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5563, the ``Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education Act' or the `GIVE Act'.'' I would like to thank my colleague, Congresswoman McCarthy, for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, Congressman George Miller, for his leadership in bringing the bill to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation came to the floor last week as H.R. 2857. It was a good bill then but now it is an even better piece of legislation. 
   The ten amendments that were incorporated into the current bill before this chamber provide: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (KIDS IN DISASTERS WELL-BEING, SAFETY, AND HEALTH ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support or H.R. 3495, the Kids in Disasters Well-Being, Safety, and Health Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Florida, Representative Corrine Brown. This important legislation ensures the protection of our nations most valuable assets, our children, during times of disasters. 
   As the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I cannot stress enough the importance of this legislation. Children have specific needs in cases of emergency and this legislation is an important first step towards recognizing and addressing those needs. Special steps must be taken with regards to children before, after, and during all disasters and emergencies, including informing them what they should know in case of emergency and working to reunite them with their families. In the aftermath of the catastrophic events of Hurricane Katrina, some 5,192 children were missing or displaced and it was not until 6 months later that the final children were re-united with their families. This is simply unacceptable. Children are not merely small adults, they are children. They are much more vulnerable to the health and safety hazards that arise during states of emergency and disasters. The American Academy of Pediatric reports that in times of emergencies and disasters: 
   Children are particularly vulnerable to aerosolized biological or chemical agents because they normally breathe more times per minute than do adults, meaning they would be exposed to larger doses in the same period of time. Also, because such agents (e.g. sarin and chlorine) are heavier than air, they accumulate close to the ground--right in the breathing zone of children. 
   Children are more vulnerable to agents that act on or through the skin because their skin is thinner and they have a larger skin surface-to-body mass ratio than adults. 
   Children are more vulnerable to the effects of agents that produce vomiting or diarrhea because they have smaller body fluid reserves than adults, increasing the risk of rapid progression to dehydration or shock. 
   Children have much smaller circulating blood volumes than adults, so without timely intervention, relatively small amounts of blood loss can quickly tip the physiological scale from reversible shock to profound, irreversible shock or death. 
   Children have significant developmental vulnerabilities not shared by adults. Infants, toddlers and young children may not have the motor skills to escape from the site of a hazard or disaster. Even if they are able to walk, young children may not have the cognitive ability to know when to flee from danger, or when to follow directions from strangers such as in an evacuation, or to cooperate with decontamination. 
   This legislation is an important and timely first step in addressing the specific needs of children by establishing the legislative branch the National Commission of Children and Disasters. This commission will better address the needs of children by identifying the specific causes and needs of children before, after, and during disasters as well as evaluating, and if necessary redressing, existing laws relevant to such needs. It further will evaluate lessons learned from the disasters of September 11th, Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Katrina, and most recently the California wild fires and report back to the President and Congress. Furthermore, this legislation directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a National Resource Center on Children and Disasters that will be responsible for creating, maintaining, and coordinating a database to store information relating to the needs of children and disseminating relevant information on such issues to all necessary parties. 
   Madam Speaker, there is no one more valuable and more vulnerable than our children. As Members of the Congress, mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers, it is our responsibility to ensure the protection and well-being of our children. This legislation is an important first step in ensuring the safety and protection of our nation's children in times of disasters. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I ask my colleagues to vote against the President's veto and therefore override the veto. As I call the roll, Cedar Bayou, Texas, Port of Galveston, Houston Ship Channel, Bayport Cruise Channel, Jacinto Port, the Upper White Oak Bayou, Buffalo Bayou, and Halls Bayou, all impacting people's lives, all of them impacting residential areas and all are covered by their water bill. And in particular, we need to vote to override the veto because 1,500 homes in my congressional district are now being required, in essence, to leave their homes because they are in a floodplain, and part of the work that this water bill will do is to help to save the homes of these hardworking Houstonians and Americans. 
   This is a good bill. This is a bill to give people back their lives and their property. This bill will contribute to improving America's failing water infrastructure and flood prone areas like Houston, Texas. I ask my colleagues to vote to override the President's veto. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PAKISTAN -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, all eyes are watching the nation of Pakistan. And I rise today to acknowledge that the people of Pakistan are friends of the United States. 
   Over the last decade or so, they have been moving toward democracy, a growing middle class, a desire for education for the boys and girls of Pakistan, and a real commitment to fighting the Taliban and terrorists in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. President Musharraf has shown leadership and commitment on these issues. 
   But today we see a raging Pakistan, a collapse of democracy, the calling of emergency rule, and the complete lacking of sensitivity to the needs of the Pakistan people. So today I am calling on President Musharraf to lift the emergency rule, to restore constitutional order, and to put Pakistan back on track. There is a definitive need for free and honest elections, and he should make an announcement that the elections should be called as of November 15 and that they should be held on January 16, 2008. 
   Why return Pakistan back to a period when democracy did not reign? It is a Muslim country. It is a democratic country. And it has flourished under the concept of democracy. 
   Dissidents should be allowed to dissent. Political prisoners and the lawyers of Pakistan should be released. There should be an independent judiciary. And the United States should show its leadership by immediately dispatching a diplomatic team from the Defense Department and State Department in order to negotiate directly with President Musharraf. Pakistan has a great future if it will maintain civility and democracy and freedom of speech and association. 
   It is important for President Musharraf to allow the judiciary to a decide his fate, to possibly seek another opportunity for election. But the most important part is that we, as an ally of Pakistan, must not abandon the people of Pakistan. It does have nuclear capacity. We must ensure that that nuclear capacity falls not in the wrong hands but is used only for civilian purposes and to provide the necessary energy resources. We can only do that if democracy is restored and if America insists that its friend Pakistan and the people of Pakistan fight and are protected in their fight to preserve democracy and the constitution. 
   We hope over the next couple of days that we will begin that kind of approach and as well that the present funding that Pakistan receives, it should be made very clear that even though those moneys may not presently be in jeopardy that those moneys will be subject to the scrutiny of determining whether human rights, constitutional rights, and democracy and order are restored to Pakistan. This is the only way to save Pakistan for its people and to allow its people to flourish in democracy and to grow as a prosperous middle class and for the children of Pakistan to see a bright future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REMEMBERING THE SPACE SHUTTLE ``CHALLENGER'' DISASTER AND HONORING ITS CREW MEMBERS -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 943, ``Remembering the space shuttle Challenger disaster and honoring its crew members, who lost their lives on January 28, 1986,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from New Hampshire, Representative Paul W. Hodes. This important legislation will honor the lives, the work, and the memory of the seven men and women who lost their lives on the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger mission. I would like to thank Representative Hodes for introducing this bill, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor, as well as Chairman Gordon for his leadership in bringing this important and timely bill to the floor today. 
   On January 28, 1986, Ellison S. Onizuka, Sharon Christa McAuliffe, Greg Jarvis, Judy Resnik, Michael J. Smith, Dick Scobee, and Ron McNair commenced on a risky journey, which only a select few have had the opportunity to travel. Twenty-two years ago, these extraordinary men and women embarked on what they knew would be a perilous flight, in pursuit of knowledge and driven by the spirit of scientific discovery. As we stand here today, on the floor of the House of Representatives, and commemorate the 22nd anniversary of the Challenger tragedy, I believe we should take a moment to recall the purpose to which the crew was dedicated. Astronauts Onizuka, McAuliffe, Jarvis, Resnik, Smith, Scobee, and McNair represent the best in all of us, and it is in their memory that we should devote ourselves to continuing what they began. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we mourn the tragic loss of these extraordinary men and women, I would also like to praise those individuals who continue to accept the challenges posed by the exploration of space and the dedication of all connected with the manned space program. However, while space exploration continues to be a part of our national destiny, it is vital that safety is made our first priority, in order to protect future astronauts and ensure the tragedy of 22 years ago never happens again. 
   From the beginning, our Nation has recognized the importance of the exploration of space and has always taken a leading role in its development and exploration. The expansion of our horizons has been essential for reasons beyond the technological advances it may provide. Moreover, it represents mankind's capability to turn distant dreams into a practical reality. 
   However, safety must remain our first priority. In June of last year, we watched as the Space Shuttle Atlantis and the International Space Station both experienced serious safety scares. The shuttle's mission had to be extended following the discovery of a rip in the shuttle's thermal blanket. The space station experienced the failure of a Russian-operated computer system controlling a crucial portion of the station's navigational system. These recent incidents clearly indicate the need for improved safety standards and oversight. Space exploration must be coupled with satisfactory safety assurances. 
   Because of my ongoing commitment to the safe exploration of space, I was proud to introduce an amendment to H.R. 3093, the Departments of Commerce and Justice and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations for FY 2008, reaffirming our strong commitment to ensuring adequate safety standards for the 
   International Space Station. My amendment emphasizes the importance of safety standards by ensuring that none of the funds made available in this Act may be used to limit the safety provisions enumerated in the recent NASA Authorization Act. If the recently delivered recommendations of the congressionally mandated International Space Station Independent Safety Task Force are to be successful in identifying and mitigating future risks to the International Space Station, Congress, together with the administration, must firmly reaffirm its commitment to pursuing safety as a  top priority. My amendment was overwhelmingly approved, by a vote of 422 to 3, and accepted into the bill. 
   At a time where our televisions, newspapers, radios and other forms of media are dominated with discussions of presidential nominations, housing foreclosures, economic stimulus packages, Middle Eastern conflicts and the war in Iraq, it would be all too easy to disregard our commitment to the enterprise of space exploration and its value to the United States and abroad. Let us look to the sky to honor the memory of these fallen heroes who gave their lives for the cause of pushing the limit of human exploration for the enrichment of all of mankind. 
   Mr. Speaker, words cannot conveyor adequately repay the debt that is owed. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that are universally felt; however, we can pay those seven souls no greater tribute than to carry on the work they believed in and paid the ultimate sacrifice for. The contributions to space exploration and service these great astronauts provided are priceless and will never go unrecognized. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and in so doing, giving the men and women of our space program the respect and recognition they deserve. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING FOR A PEACEFUL RESOLUTION TO THE CURRENT ELECTORAL CRISIS IN KENYA -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 283, calling for a peaceful resolution to the current electoral crisis in Kenya, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New Jersey, Chairman Payne. This important legislation commends the Kenyan people for their significant strides towards democracy and calls for the peaceful resolution of their current electoral crisis. 
   As a senior Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs as well as the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, I am deeply concerned with the current crisis in Kenya. It saddens me to see the once relatively stable country of Kenya explode into chaotic violence, which has left more than 900 people dead and forced 300,000 people from their homes. Democracy must move forward in Kenya, and the cry for clear, transparent and peaceful elections must not go unheard by the international community. As Kenya's political crisis also becomes a humanitarian emergency, with over 300,000 people displaced from their homes and the distribution of food aid halted, experts have begun to warn of a looming health crisis. It is vital for the people of Kenya that we work rapidly to bring this conflict to a peaceful conclusion. 
   This important legislation denounces Kenyan security forces from using unwarranted force and urges them to respect the human rights of Kenyan citizens. This legislation further condemns the callous terrorization to civil society groups, journalists, religious leaders, and civil rights leaders. 
   While Kenya has long been an important friend and ally to the United States, at times our relationship has been strained due to concerns about corruption and human rights conditions in the sub-Saharan nation. However, this intricate relationship has been recently renewed and reinvigorated with the advent of the 1992 multiparty elections in Kenya. The people of Kenya have shown a desire and commitment for democracy that is unprecedented and sets a new standard for the region. Their unparalleled commitment to democracy and respect for the democratic process is indicated in the high voter turnout and peaceful voting on election day. 
   On December 27, 2007, the desire of the Kenyan nation for a meaningful change in politics and the revival of democracy was manifest in the millions of Kenyans who took to the polls. The months preceding the December elections showed opposition candidate Raila Odinga leading in the polls over incumbent President Mwai Kibaki. Amidst domestic and international cries of polling irregularities, the Electoral Commission of Kenya declared President Kibaki as the winner. 
   It is not the election itself but rather the aftermath of the elections and a way forward that concerns us here today. The Kenyan Constitution authorizes the establishment of the Electoral Commission of Kenya, ECK. While the ECK is comprised of 22 commissioners, 19 of the commissioners were appointed by President Kibaki last year, which is authorized by the Kenyan Constitution. What is not authorized was the appointment of the new commissioners without proper consultation with opposition parties, which violated the Inter-Parliamentary Parties Group Agreement of 1997. While the ECK quickly declared President Kibaki the winner, the chairman of the commission later admitted that he ``was  under intense political pressure from powerful political leaders and the ruling party.'' Furthermore, press reports quote the Kenya Electoral Commission Chairman Samuel M. Kivuitu as stating that ``the day he went to deliver the certificate declaring Kibaki the winner, he saw the chief justice already at the State House reportedly waiting to swear in Kibaki.'' The swearing-in ceremony itself was so rushed that it is said organizers forgot to include the national anthem in the program. Mr. Speaker, to call these events ``irregularities'' as the ECK commissioners and ECK staff have conceded, is a vast understatement. In order for Kenya to continue moving forward on its current democratic trajectory, elections must be transparent, free, and fair, none of which were seen in the December 27 election. This legislation calls upon the two leading presidential candidates to accept offers of external and internal assistance to help find a solution to the current crisis that has the support of the people of Kenya. 
   What is equally disturbing was the United States' reaction to this electoral crisis. While the EU observers criticized the election for its myriad of inconsistencies, on December 30, the United States government reportedly congratulated President Kibaki for his victory. In a recently released report, the EU concluded, ``the 2007 general elections have fallen short of key international and regional standards for democratic elections. Most significantly, they were marred by a lack of transparency in the processing and tallying of presidential results, which raises concerns about the accuracy of the final results of this election.'' Following both regional and international uproar, the United States seemingly changed its position in January as Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Jendayi Frazer, declared that ``serious flaws in the vote tallying process damaged the credibility of the process.'' Such inconsistency on the part of diplomatic corps of the United States sends a poor message to our friends and allies struggling for democracy across the sea. 
   As outrage over the electoral results permeated throughout the country, so too did spontaneous demonstrations of anger and ultimately violence. Recent statistics reported by the UN and Kenyan sources state that since late December more than 900 people have been killed and an estimated 300,000 displaced, including some 80,000 children under the age of five. International observers have proclaimed that while some protestors died due to mob violence, many others were reportedly shot and killed by police. While the Kenya military did not engage in riot control for most of January, press reports and Kenyan sources state that 
   Kenyan police and security were given authority to use lethal force to dissipate mobs. In the wake of the disputed election results, the Kenyan government banned demonstrations and initiated media restrictions, which seem to have further stoked the fire. 
   Mr. Speaker, with the intolerable number of Kenyans dead and displaced, it is imperative that the United States play a meaningful role in resolving the current crises. With, two failed international missions, it is time that we rethink our strategy in addressing the current crisis. 
   The ongoing violence as a means to achieve political objectives in Kenya must come to a halt. We need the superior support of the United Nations to assist those affected by violence, and use all the diplomatic means to persuade relevant political actors to commit to a peaceful resolution to the crisis. This legislation emphasizes precisely these issues. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation that arbitrates for the Kenyan people.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF BLACK HISTORY MONTH -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 942, Recognizing the Significance of Black History Month, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Texas, Representative Green. This important legislation recognizes and celebrates the accomplishments and contributions of African-Americans in this Nation. 
   The celebration of Black History Month began with Negro History Week in 1926, the vision of Dr. Carter G. Woodson. Dr. Woodson, a noted African-American author and scholar recognized then, as we do today, that the achievements and contributions of African-Americans deserve not only to be acknowledged, but also to be celebrated by all Americans. 
   Over the course of 50 years, Negro History gained momentum, culminating in its transcendence to Black History Month. Now each February we express our appreciation of the struggles, determination and perseverance of the African-American community of the past and present. February is a month to recognize the contributions of African-Americans who have enriched our culture and our heritage. 
   There have been great African-American activists, scientists, artists, poets, athletes, politicians, writers, economists, musicians, engineers, and entertainers who have all bettered our way of life. From Harriet Tubman to Barbara Jordan, Althea Gibson to Venus Williams, Marian Anderson to Ella Fitzgerald, Frederick Douglass to Martin Luther King, Jr., so many African-Americans have enriched this Nation that there are far too many to name them all. 
   Unfortunately, the struggle for African-Americans to gain recognition and celebration in this Nation continues beyond Black History Month. While we can be proud of the many achievements of our past, events such as Hurricane Katrina and Jena 6, demonstrate that we still have much to achieve in the way of equal rights and justice for all. 
   One of the great challenges facing the African-American community is the disproportionate rate at which our people are incarcerated. 
   According to the Department of Justice more than 2.3 million people are incarcerated in this Nation's State and Federal prisons. 
   As of December 2006, African-Americans made up 40.2 percent of Federal prison inmates, most of those being African-American men. 
   When you compare these statistics with the fact that African-Americans only make up approximately 12 percent of the total population, the disparity becomes more apparent. The human toll--the wasted lives, shattered families, and disturbed youth--are incalculable, as are the adverse social, economic and political consequences of weakened communities, diminished opportunities for economic mobility, and widespread disenfranchisement. 
   In Jena, Louisiana, two African-American high school students sat under what some White students called the ``white'' tree on their campus. The White students responded by hanging nooses from the tree. When African-American students protested the light punishment for the students who hung the nooses, the District Attorney came to the school and told the students he could ``take their lives away with a stroke of his pen.'' Racial tensions continued to mount in Jena, and the District Attorney did nothing in response to several egregious cases of violence and threats against African-American students. 
   But when a White student--who had been a vocal supporter of the students who hung the nooses--taunted African-American students, allegedly called several African-American students ``nigger'', and was beaten up by African-American students, the punishment was drastically different. Six African-American students were charged with second-degree attempted murder. Mychal Bell was one of the students tried and convicted. He faced up to 22 years in prison for essentially a school fight. 
   The African-American community came to the aid of these young men, as they have done in years past for other young men. While we take this month to celebrate the past and present African-American achievements and contributions, we must face the future with an understanding that there is more to be done and more to be achieved. 
   As a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, a Representative of the people of the United States, and an African-American woman, I am proud to cosponsor this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING THE HOUSTON DYNAMO SOCCER TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2007 MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER CUP -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 867 commending the Houston Dynamo for winning the 2007 Major League Soccer Cup. I would first like to commend our distinguished colleague Gene Green of the 29th Congressional District of Texas for introducing this important resolution. The Houston Dynamo has consistently strived for excellence and dominated the MLS playoffs for 2 consecutive years and I am happy to commend them for their efforts. 
   The Dynamo played their first game on April 2, 2006, in front of a crowd of 25,462 in Robertson Stadium. The Dynamo finished their first season in Houston with an 11-8-13 record, earning them second place in the Western Conference. On November 12, 2006, at Pizza Hut Park in Frisco, Texas, the Houston Dynamo defeated the New England Revolution in an exciting match decided by the first shootout in MLS history, 4-3 on penalty kicks after a 1-1 tie to win the 2006 MLS Cup. 
   After regrouping in 2007 and pulling off a win against rival FC Dallas, Houston began an winning streak of 11 games and a shutout streak of 726 minutes, a new MLS record. They finished in second place in the regular season in the Western Conference, advancing to the 2007 MLS Cup Playoffs, where they met State rivals FC Dallas in the first round. Just like in 2006, they faced the New England Revolution for the championship, and won it 2-1 on a game-winning goal by Dwayne De Rosario in the second half, thus winning their second MLS Cup in a row. 
   As a native Houstonian I am proud to honor the Houston Dynamo for their sheer dominance since the premiere of MLS soccer in the United States. I strongly urge the community to support the Houston Dynamo as they will need it to sustain the expectations they have already lived up to. I strongly support this resolution and I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXTENDING PARITY IN APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LIMITS TO MENTAL HEALTH BENEFITS -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, allow me to thank the distinguished gentleman from New Jersey for his kindness and his leadership, and to add my appreciation as well for Congressman Kennedy for the years that he has worked on this issue. And I join them in raising our voices. 
   I remember the leadership that came from another Member from New Jersey, and Congressman Pallone has now embraced this issue in his capacity and leadership on the Energy and Commerce Committee. And my classmate, Congressman Kennedy, has been pressing this message along with Congressman Ramstad for a very long time, that we have the capacity and the empathy and sympathy to address the question of mental health parity, but we have not yet had the energy and the results-oriented efforts that it needs. 
   I pay tribute, of course, to the late Senator Paul Wellstone, who came to my district some years ago through my invitation as cochair of the Congressional Children's Caucus and visited our juvenile detention centers and emphasized that many of the juveniles that were then incarcerated also needed greater access to mental health facilities and mental health services. 
   Mental health parity and the extension thereof of the annual lifetime limits is crucial to save lives. How many of us have seen on the news or addressed our constituents where seniors, parents are calling the police for their adult children who are suffering from mental health needs? Tragically, some of those encounters end in death. There is no need for that. 
   In addition, we will be seeing, as the war in Iraq ends and Afghanistan's war and conflict ends, numbers of individuals coming back who have been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress, and we will say that's the Veterans Affairs' concern, or brain trauma. Yes, in the realm of the framework of their return, it may be; but they will live, and through their lifetime may have encounters that need to have the coverage of a mental health parity bill. 
   I support H.R. 4848 and thank Congressman Pallone for the insight to move forward on this extension. But I pray tell that we will find it in our determination to move forward on the Paul Wellstone parity bill that is being carried by Congressman Kennedy and a number of others. I have supported this legislation for a number of years, so I rise enthusiastically for H.R. 4848. 
   And, if I might, having missed the discussion on H. Con. Res 283, the bill dealing with Kenya, I simply want to add my statement into the Record, but call out for the compliance with this legislation, as it is passed, that we have sanctions for those who will not come to the peace table, that we compliment Kenya for its democracy, but, as well, that we push them toward a settlement of this vicious incident, having killed 900 people. 
   I end my comments by asking for enthusiastic support for H.R. 4848. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2272, AMERICA COMPETES ACT -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentlelady from Ohio, and I thank her for her leadership not only on the Rules Committee but on the Judiciary Committee. It is a pleasure to have the opportunity to work with her. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me acknowledge the chairman of the Science Committee, Mr. Gordon, and the ranking member of the Science Committee. As an alumnus of this committee, let me applaud this effort and indicate that this is not the end but it is the beginning. It has been a long journey, but it is premised on very important challenges. 
   We begin to look around the world, and we notice that nations who in years past were looking to the United States for the cutting edge of technology now are graduating more mathematicians and engineers in 1 month, such as China, than we might be graduating in 1 year. We understand the premise of this competitive legislation. H.R. 2272 is long overdue, and it is reaching to answer a crisis. 
   Earlier this morning, we heard reference to President John F. Kennedy about his pronouncement that America was going into space. It was said at that time that the President didn't know how we were going into space, did not have a grasp of the possible technology, but yet by his pronouncement it opened the doors of America's inventiveness to be able to create this pathway to space. 
   Well, now that we have statistics behind us of Leave No Child Behind, a bill that we hope we will truly reform, we do have numbers suggesting that America's children are shortchanged in math and science. We do know that America's schools are failing with respect to equipment in science laboratories; and we do know America's schools need the kind of trained teachers, master teachers who can emphasize math and science. So I am very grateful that this particular legislation allows for 25,000 new teachers over the next 3 years through Professional Development Summer Training Institute's graduate education focusing on math and science. 
   Today, in my own district, I am working with private-to-public sector to help fund one of the failing school districts to give them what you call master teachers in math and science to build up their laboratories. But we are using private dollars because we can't get the public dollars. This maintains the importance of qualified teachers in mathematics and science. It does something that is key, that many of us have been working on who have been advocating for NASA for many years, and that is a partnership between the public and private. 
   I hope that NASA will be one of those who can be utilized to engage more heavily in the community on the issues of math, science, and engineering. 
   And something that we have worked on and I have worked on all my years on the Science Committee, working with historically black colleges and Hispanic-serving colleges, we now have a focus on minorities and women in the science area. 
   When I first came to this Congress, I passed legislation that would allow excess equipment from the Nation's laboratories to be used in our secondary and primary schools, anything to put a nexus between research and science and development to the Nation's education system. This puts it squarely on the front burner. And I think what also happens is that we have revitalized the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the Department of Energy's Office of Science. 
   The key element of this legislation is that, without ideas, we are not competitive. That is why it is so named. And I hope that as this bill moves forward the President and Presidents to come will make this a cornerstone of their administration; that is, that  America fails when her inventiveness, when her scientists and engineers are stifled and America fails when its people, are, in essence, divided and some go forward and some do not. So the idea that we must see again the emphasis on math and science for girls as we do boys is crucial. 
   Let me just simply say, as a partner to this effort, we recently passed my NASA Coin Bill. Interestingly enough, in that legislation there are opportunities to embrace children-focused programs that would encourage the research or the science at a primary school level so that children grow up saying, ``I want to be.'' And I know they want to be basketball players and they want to be maybe astronauts because they look great, but I want them to grow up and say, ``I want to be a math teacher or mathematician. I want to be a biologist or a chemist or a nuclear physicist or an engineer of many different types.'' As we reflect on the tragedy of the Minnesota bridge collapse, we need engineers and technicians to help build America and to create jobs. 
   I close, Mr. Speaker, by simply saying science is the work of the 21st century. This is what this bill is about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3161, AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairwoman of this subcommittee and the chairman of the full committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think that we have waited long enough for energy reform and for nutrition reform, which is what this bill tackles. I rise today to support working for American farmers, but also working for those who get up every day without a meal. 
   To recognize that it is important to have food safety, it's important to have an improved food and lunch program and food stamps, it's important to focus on nutrition, and that is what we have done here. 
   I am glad to see that there is an aspect that deals with alternative fuels; and having written a bill dealing with cellulosic ethanol, I know that we have to move in a more effective direction. But I am also glad that we recognize a particular viable aspect of the importance of dealing with hunger in America. 
   I am concerned and hope that as we move forward, one of our vital assets, the Hunger Center, will move toward authorization, as I understand, and then increase funding so that it can be a tool to the Department of Agriculture in dealing with the question of hunger in America and around the world. This particular bill also provides more help for USAID, and I believe that it is an important asset. 
   In the short time that I have I would like to yield to the gentlelady from Connecticut to ask a question, and that is to comment on a point I made about the Hunger Center, and the fact that it is moving towards authorization that we will see in the years to come, an opportunity for more work on its part and more resources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3161, AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I ask my colleagues to support the bill.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3161, which strengthens our rural communities, while making sure that the American people have adequate, safe and nutritious food to eat. Let me commend the Chairwoman of the Subcommittee, Ms. DeLauro, for her exceptional leadership in crafting such extraordinary legislation to combat hunger, obesity and malnutrition in our nation and around the world. That is why I strongly support this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3161 allows us to reinvest in the often forgotten but most vitally important rural areas of America. H.R. 3161 is designed to sustain the vitality of rural America, as well as protecting public health and food safety, improving nutrition and healthy eating, and promoting renewable energy and conservation in America. 
   Mr. Speaker, more than 3 million households in the rural America continue to have inadequate or no water or sewer service at all. H.R. 3161 is the solution to this disparity in that it provides $500 million for rural water and waste disposal grants, a 14 percent increase over 2007, and $1 billion for water and waste direct loans for the fiscal year. 
   Mr. Speaker, energy independence and protecting our environment are universal concerns to us all. The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes.  A bill that I have proposed, the 21st Century Energy Independence Act acknowledges this issue and aims to replace oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol that can help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, and end our addiction to foreign oil. 
   My bill alleviates our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels by utilizing loan guarantees to promote the development of traditional and cellulosic ethanol technology. In addition to ensuring access to more abundant sources of energy, replacing petroleum use with ethanol will help reduce U.S. carbon emissions, which are otherwise expected to increase by 80 percent by 2025. Cellulosic ethanol can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 87 percent. Thus, transitioning from foreign oil to ethanol will protect our environment from dangerous carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3161 supports an innovative solution to our national energy crisis as well. H.R. 3161 ensures that America achieves energy independence and improves our environment by establishing a loan guarantee program which supports projects for the harvesting, storing, and delivery of agriculture residues for use in cellulosic or traditional ethanol production plants. H.R. 3161 supports energy and conservation, nearly doubles funding for renewable energy loans and grants to businesses to grow our economy, create new jobs, lower energy prices, and reduce global warming. The bill provides resources for research, aid to farmers and ranchers, and loans to businesses, restores many vital programs such as the Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative, Resource Conservation and Development, and the watershed programs. 
   Mr. Speaker, recent food scares--about peanut butter and lettuce--have made Americans nervous about where their food originates. H.R. 3161 tackles these concerns and addresses the importance of food safety. This bill fully funds the Food Safety and Inspection Service at USDA, shifts funds to fill vacancies in federal meat inspector positions, invests in research, and funds a transformation of FDA food safety regulations. It also prohibits imported poultry products from China, and sets a timeline for USDA to implement critical country of origin labeling for our meat supply after six years of Republican delays. 
   In addition, H.R. 3161 provides a special supplemental nutritional program for women, infants, and children other known as (WIC). This provision is so essential because it affords many women, especially women of color in lower income brackets, the opportunity to care for themselves and their newborns after birth. Without programs such as WIC, many mothers would not be able to maintain a healthy lifestyle during pregnancies and after childbirth. Because of WIC, mothers can afford their nutritional foods they need to sustain their pregnancies and avoid miscarriages, stillbirths and defects caused by malnourishment during pregnancy. H.R. 3161 invests $233.4 million (4 percent) more than the President to feed more than 8 million pregnant women, mothers and children next year. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe in the importance of multilateral engagement, and in the immense value of working with other concerned parties. Hunger and malnutrition are truly global problems, and, while I strongly urge the United States to be a leader in combating both, it is not the only world actor. International organizations, like the United Nations, are actively combating global hunger through a number of different organs including the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the World Health Organization. Additionally, regional organizations, such as the African Union (AU) and the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), play a crucial role in efforts to eradicate hunger. 
   I have an amendment that requires coordination and integration between different foreign assistance programs, and it 
   states that assistance shall also be coordinated and integrated in the recipient country with other donors, including international and regional organizations and other donor countries. 
   Nonetheless, hunger is not a problem facing not only the international community faces, but it is also a problem in our own country. Many women, children, and the elderly should not wake and go to bed hungry in our great nation, but tragically this happens all too often in the cities and villages and small towns of our great country. Too many Americans continue to suffer from food shortages, hunger, and insecurity. According to 2005 figures, 35.1 million people live in households that are ``food insecure,'' or they do not know where their next meal will come from. 
   The commodity supplemental food program incorporated into H.R. 3161 provides $500,000 monthly in the year 2007 to combat hunger and increases funding in this area to allow people in five additional states to participate in the program and expand those getting food in states already in the program. In addition, under the Food Stamp Benefit provision, H.R. 3161 protects the most vulnerable and helpless; families of soldiers in combat. Like the recently passed Farm bill, the measure ensures that the families of soldiers in combat are not penalized under the Food Stamp program. It also rejects the Administration's proposal to restrict eligibility for food stamps by excluding needy families who are receiving certain other services. 
   Mr. Speaker, let us remember that 1 in 3 American adults is overweight or obese and more than 9 million children are struggling with obesity. H.R. 3161 aims to improve the eating habits of Americans, particularly our children, through programs that teach children about healthy eating. H.R. 3161 increases funding for nutrition programs, including the Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program, which broadens Fresh Fruit and Vegetable and Simplified Summer Food programs to all states to provide nutritious foods to children in low-income families, and specialty crop grants to encourage more fruit and vegetable consumption. 
   Obesity is associated with 35 major diseases including chronic and life-threatening conditions such as cancer, diabetes and heart disease. It is important to keep our Nation healthy by providing access to high consumption of vegetables and fruits to the future of our great country, our children. By supporting H.R. 3161 we assure a healthy consumption of nutritional foods for children whose only crime is that their families are poor. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3161 is essential because it addresses one of the most staggering causes of death in children: malnutrition. Malnutrition remains a significant problem worldwide, particularly among children. According to the United Nations World Food Programme, severe acute malnutrition affects an estimated 20 million children under the age of five worldwide and is responsible in whole or in part for more than half of all deaths of children. Malnutrition kills approximately one million children each year, or an average of one every thirty seconds. 
   These statistics are absolutely frightening and simply intolerable. They are also avoidable. The World Food Programme estimates that, when implemented on a large scale and combined with hospital treatment for children who suffer complications, a community-based approach to combating malnutrition could save the lives of hundreds of thousands of children each year. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3161 recognizes the importance of helping our neighbors in combating the hunger. H.R. 3161 provides funding for the Foreign Agricultural Service in the amount of $159,136,000 and transfers of $4,985,000, for a total salaries and expenses level of $164,121,000, an increase of $2,817,000 above the amount available for fiscal year 2007 and a decrease of $9,073,000 below the budget request. 
   In addition, H.R. 3161 permits the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to use up to 25 percent of the funds appropriated for local or regional purchase of food to assist people threatened by a food security crisis. 
   Mr. Speaker, if it were not for grants such as the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, many foreigners would have no other choice than to leave their native country in pursuit of a better life. H.R. 3161 reminds us that it is important for the United States to foster a relationship with other parts of the world, so that citizens of developing countries can also have basic rights such as sufficient amount of food. The McGovern-Dole International Food program is funded in this bill in the amount of $100,000,000, an increase of $1,000,000 above the amount available for fiscal year 2007, and the same as the budget request. 
   The George McGovern-Robert Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program fights child hunger and poverty by supporting school feeding operations, which provide nutritious meals to children in schools. This simple formula has been proven to be a success. Because of such programs, students are better able to concentrate and learn more quickly on a full stomach. Enrollment and attendance rates have skyrocketed as a result of school feeding programs, particularly among girls who are too often denied an education. 
   Mr. Speaker, there are 110 million school-aged children suffering from hunger every day, and they are counting on America's leadership and generosity to provide them with an opportunity to break the cycle of poverty. This bill provides that leadership and generosity, and it is for this reason that I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for its passage by an overwhelming margin.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my good friend and thank her for her leadership on the Armed Services Committee; and to my friends on the other side of the aisle, it is great news that we have a new direction in the Armed Services Committee that takes seriously the issues of readiness and the quality of life for our troops. 
   Some would ask the question, troops are in battle, why are you worrying about the quality of life? Because my friend who cited the Constitution failed to recognize Article I, Section 8, that indicates that Congress does have the authority to declare war. Embodied in that declaration is a responsibility for our troops. 
   And might I refer my friend to the letter by the Reserve Enlisted Association which is thanking Congresswoman Tauscher for acknowledging the importance of rest time, rest time between battles. These soldiers are battle worn, mentally and physically. The first part of their duty they were over there with no equipment, no Humvees that were reinforced, no equipment that protected them from those weapons they were being shot at by. The Veterans for America emphasizes we are compounding the wounds of war. 
   When I visited Iraq, I would talk to individuals who are carpenters and painters. They were given a gun, and they were told to get into battle. Readiness is a key. 
   I just was home in my district, and a mother came to me crying. Her son is a naval Reserve officer who's been in the Reserves for some 20 years or so, 38 years old, is being handed a gun and said go off to war. There are disciplines and there are training that we must give to these individuals. 
   And just a few appropriation cycles ago, I offered an amendment dealing with the time frame for redeployment. We're seeing soldiers being redeployed once, twice, three times, four times with no rest. And so we have a balance here for active duty, Reserve, National Guard forces, and others. 
   We are clearly doing the right thing in this bill, and I ask my colleagues to support it.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3159, the Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability Deployment Policy Act of 2007. I would like to thank my colleague Ms. Tauscher for introducing this legislation, and the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, for his leadership on this Issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, no issue will define this Congress more than how we handle the ongoing conflict in Iraq. In recent weeks and months, this Congress has taken definitive action to end what we, and the people of the United States, believe to be a conflict without tangible goals and targets. The American people made their views clear last November: The time has come to end U.S. military involvement in Iraq. 
   And yet, the Bush Administration has decided to instead increase the numbers of American soldiers in Iraq. President Bush's ``New Way Forward'' strategy, announced in January, calls for the deployment of over 20,000 additional U.S. combat forces, to be used to stabilize Baghdad and the Anbar Province. This is coming at a time when, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal Poll, 59 percent of Americans believe we should be reducing the number of troops in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, at the heart of this effort are our brave troops, the men and women who courageously risk and too often lose their lives thousands of miles from home. The Iraq war has already cost over 3,500 American lives. More than 25,000 Americans have been injured. Thousands of U.S. personnel have lost limbs or suffered debilitating mental and physical injuries. Yet as casualties rise, the Bush Administration pushes for the escalation of American soldiers into the most hostile communities in Iraq. In addition to the enormous expenditure of lives, American taxpayers have paid more than $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   When a soldier is deployed away from home for lengthy periods of time, his or her entire family suffers. Earlier this week, the United States Army released a report that stated that the children of enlisted soldiers are 60% more likely to be abused or neglected when a parent is deployed to a combat zone. The author of this study commented, ``The surprising finding was that the effect of deployment was so consistent. Just about any way we could divide the population, we found increased rates of child maltreatment during deployment. We looked at pay grade, rank, single or multiple deployments, whether the family lives on or off post--all showed increases.'' Researchers attributed this to the increasing trend of continuous deployment of our soldiers. As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I would like to register my strong concern about the impact this war is having on American children and families. 
   This bill, H.R. 3159, contains important provisions to ensure that those who are sent to fight in what I have always considered to be an ill-advised war have adequate time to rest and recover between deployments: time to spend with their families and loved ones, and time to recover from the mental and psychological problems that are all too common after combat deployment. As we continue to work here in Congress to bring this war to a speedy and comprehensive conclusion, I believe we must make every effort to provide consideration for those who bear the brunt of this Administration's ill-advised preemptive war in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that our service men and women deserve enough time to rest and recover at home between combat deployments for Operation Iraqi Freedom. This legislation reaffirms the stated Department of Defense policy for deployment, which is currently being waived for Iraq, calling for a 1:2 deployment ratio for active duty and a 1:5 ratio for reserve soldiers. It continues to allow the President and the Chiefs of the Military services to waive these requirements, if unforeseen circumstances arise. 
   Four years after our ill-advised invasion, the evidence is clear and irrefutable: The invasion of Iraq, while a spectacularly executed military operation, was a strategic blunder without parallel in the history of American foreign policy. This is what can happen when the Congress allows itself to be stampeded into authorizing a president to launch a preemptive war of choice. It is time to rethink our strategy in Iraq, to encourage and engage in diplomacy, and to sit down with the various players in the Middle East and make real strides towards securing Iraq, the Iraqi people, and most importantly our most precious resource: the troops we love so dearly. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will continue to strongly oppose this war until we are finally able to end this conflict. In the meantime, I believe it is our responsibility, here in Congress, to make sure that those we send to fight and risk their lives in Iraq receive the very best care and services. This includes adequate time to rest and recover between deployments. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SALUTING THE LIFE AND MUSIC OF THE LATE BO DIDDLEY -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong supoprt of H. Res. __ ``A resolution regarding the passing of Bo Diddley.'' I am proud to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this timely legislation. I would like to thank my colleague, Chairman Conyers of the Judiciary Committee, for introducing this bill, and for providing leadership on this important issue. 
   Bo Diddley was a musician par excellence. He was a singer, guitarist, songwriter, music pioneer, and actor. 
   He was born December 30, 1928, and recently passed on June 2, 2008. He was an American rock and roll singer. In fact, he was the progenitor of the genre. He was a guitarist, songwriter, and more. He was the key figure that transitioned from blues to rock and roll. Bo Diddley gave America hard rhythms, hard guitar, and his characteristic rectangular guitar. 
   He was born in McComb, Mississippi, as Ellas Otha Bates. He was adopted and raised by his mother's cousin, Gussie McDaniel, whose surname he assumed, becoming Ellas McDaniel. 
   His family moved to Chicago when he was the tender age of seven. There, he took violin lessons, but was inspired to become a guitarist after seeing John Lee Hooker. 
   He worked as a carpenter, mechanic, and began his musical career with his friends in the 40s and 50s. In 1955, he released his #1 R&amp;B hit, called ``Bo Diddley.'' 
   He appeared on The Ed Sullivan Show on November 20, 1955. During that appearance, he sang his hit ``Bo Diddley.'' He continued to have hits through the late 1950s and the 1960s. In 1963, he starred in a U.K. concert tour with the Everly Brothers and Little Richard. The Rolling Stones, still unknown at that time, appeared much lower on the same bill. He would play with the Rolling Stones years later in 1979. He would play with the Grateful Dead, The Clash. His music was covered by countless American musicians ranging from Elvis Presley, Bruce Springsteen, U2, The Who, The Police, David Bowie, George Michael, and the Animals, to name a few. His music is timeless. 
   Diddley's song ``Who Do You Love'' can be heard in the intro credits to the movie La Bamba. He appeared on a 2003 episode of the sitcom According to Jim entitled ``Bo Diddley,'' had a small role in the film Trading Places, starring Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd, and appeared in George Thorogood's ``Bad to the Bone'' video. The song ``Bad to the Bone'' is a rework of Diddley's ``I'm A Man.'' Eric Clapton's 1992 ``Unplugged'' included a cover of Diddley's ``Before you accuse me.'' 
   On his music Bo Diddley once said ``I don't like to copy anybody. Everybody tries to do what I do, update it,'' he is quoted as telling the Associated Press. ``I don't have any idols I copied after.'' 
   ``They copied everything I did, upgraded it, messed it up. It seems to me that nobody can come up with their own thing, they have to put a little bit of Bo Diddley there,'' he said. 
   He has left an indelible mark on American music. The founder of rock and roll. He was a tremendous musician and he had over a half-century of experience in the music business. He was a mastermind, a genius, he was Bo Diddley. We honor him and his tremendous contribution to American music. Heaven is a sweeter place now that Bo Diddley is there. And, the angels are surely singing.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5683, the Government Accountability Office Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Illinois, Representative DANNY K. DAVIS. This important legislation will improve the oversight, administration, and pay adjustment mechanisms at the Government Accountability Office. 
   As highlighted by Mr. DAVIS, the former Comptroller General emphasized that Federal agencies should have ``modern, effective, credible, and, as appropriate, validated performance management systems in place with adequate safeguards, including reasonable transparency and appropriate accountability mechanisms, to ensure fairness and prevent politicalization and abuse.'' I have been an outspoken advocate for improved inner governmental mechanisms that would allow for more fluid movement of information, equity, and the adherence to clear fair processes. H.R. 5683 is imperative to ensure that we as lawmakers are working responsibly to meet the needs of our constituents. 
   Some of the safeguards recommended by the Government Accountability Office, GAO, include a performance management system that makes meaningful distinctions in individual employee performance; involves employees and stakeholders in designing the system; and achieves consistency, equity and nondiscrimination. Over the last 2 years, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has conducted oversight, and has also investigated the implementation of GAO's new personnel system to determine if it meets the aforesaid criteria. This investigation revealed that it did not meet the criteria. In addition, based on its investigation the committee concluded that, contrary to legislative intent, GAO employees who met and exceeded expectations in 2006 and 2007, sadly, did not receive the annual across-the-board increase that other GAO employees received. This important legislation would restore the 2006 and 2007 annual across-the-board increase to GAO employees who met expectations but did not receive the adjustment. It would also put into place a ``floor guarantee'' that would preserve GAO's performance-based compensation system, while ensuring that GAO employees receive an annual increase in their permanent pay, provided they ``meet expectations,'' that is at least equal to the congressionally approved across-the-board increase. 
   The floor guarantee will be comprised of the annual adjustment to the GAO pay schedule plus the permanent merit pay increase received by an employee under GAO's merit pay system. This bill also establishes an Office of the Inspector General in GAO, who shall report semiannually to the Comptroller General to ensure that GAO is operating on one accord and is putting forth its best effort in implementing H.R. 5683. While I recognize that there are additional improvements that need to be made, this legislation will help improve the morale at GAO and remedy the inequities that resulted from the denial of the 2006 increase and the across-the-board adjustments. 
   This legislation is imperative to change certain pay practices, compensate employees for certain past practices, and increase salary payments to some GAO employees. It would also increase the cap on employees pay. This bill will expand the types of pay that are included in retirement benefit calculations. H.R. 5683 contains no inter-governmental or private sector mandated mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act, UMRA, and would not affect the budgets of States, local or tribunal governments. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FORMER VICE PRESIDENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5938, the ``Former Vice President Protection Act of 2008.'' I would like to thank the Chair of the Judiciary Committee, Congressman Conyers, for introducing this bill and for providing leadership on this important issue. 
   The former vice presidents of the United States have brought to that office significant public service experience, including as members of Congress or state governors. Some came to their role as president of the Senate already familiar with the body, having served as U.S. Senators. Several vice presidents later returned to serve again in the Senate, among them former President Andrew Johnson. Two vice presidents, George Clinton and John C. Calhoun, held the office under two different presidents. 
   Of the fourteen vice presidents who fulfilled their ambition by achieving the presidency, eight succeeded to the office on the death of a president, and four of these were later elected president. Two vice presidents, Hannibal Hamlin and Henry Wallace, were dropped from the ticket after their first term, only to see their successors become president months after taking office, when the assassination of Abraham Lincoln made Andrew Johnson president and the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt raised Harry Truman to the presidency. Similarly, when Spiro Agnew resigned, he was replaced under the Twenty-fifth Amendment by Gerald R. Ford, who became president when Richard M. Nixon resigned less than a year later. 
   The vice-presidency was generally held by men of mature years, with most of them in their fifties or sixties when they took office. The youngest, John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky, was thirty-six at the beginning of his term. At seventy-two, Alben Barkley, another Kentuckian, was the oldest when his term began. 
   Because I recognize the importance of the vice-presidency and the pivotal role it plays in American politics, I believe that tribute, respect, honor, and protection should be afforded to the person, and the family, that has obtained this position. I am proud to support this legislation. 
   Specifically, Title 18 U.S.C. provides former Presidents and their spouses protection by the United States Secret Service after leaving office but provides no such protection for former Vice Presidents and their families. H.R. 5938, authorizes the United States Secret Service to protect the former Vice President of the United States, his/her spouse, and his/her children under the age of 17 for not more than six months after the Vice President leaves office. The bill would also allow protection to continue should circumstances warrant extension. 
   After the assassination of President William McKinley in 1901, Congress informally requested Secret Service presidential protection. A year later, the Secret Service assumed full-time responsibility for protection of the President. Today, the secret service, which is under the Department of Homeland Security, is tasked with protecting the President of the United States and spouse and children under 17 years old for up to ten years after serving in office. The Secret Service also provides protection for widow(er) of the President and it provides protection for foreign heads of state and accompanying spouse when they visit the United States. 
   To date, four presidents have been assassinated, and there have been approximately twelve other assassination attempts on U.S. presidents. Under current law, because of the prestige of the office of President, current and former Presidents are protected by the secret service. Former Vice Presidents have not received any protection from the secret service after the vice president's term in office had expired. This legislation would ensure that Vice Presidents get protection for as long as necessary. Thus, the legislation ensures the safety and well-being of the Vice-President, spouse, and children under 17 years of age. This bill recognizes the important role of the office of Vice President. It is a powerful role with important responsibilities. This bill makes an important statement regarding our appreciation, commitment, and respect to the second most powerful position in this, our great country. 
   I think this bill makes sense. It is reasonable in its scope and its terms. I am proud to support this bill and I urge my colleagues to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EB-5 REGIONAL CENTER PILOT PROGRAM EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support H.R. 5569. I am proud to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this timely legislation. I would like to thank my colleague, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren, Chairwoman of the Immigration Subcommittee, for her leadership on sponsoring this legislation. I would also like to thank Mr. Blake Chisam, counsel on the Immigration Subcommittee, and Mr. Arthur Sidney, of my staff, for their important work in including my amendment in the bill. 
   By way of background and explanation, H.R. 5569 extends for five years the EB-5 regional center pilot program. Congress created the fifth employment-based preference, EB-5, immigrant visa category in 1990 for immigrants seeking to engage in a commercial enterprise that will benefit the U.S. economy and create at least 10 full-time jobs. 
   The basic amount required to invest is $1 million, although that amount may be $500,000 if the investment is made in a ``targeted employment area.'' Of the approximately 10,000 numbers available for this preference each year, 3,000 are reserved for entrepreneurs who invest in targeted employment areas. A separate allocation of 3,000 visas is set aside for entrepreneurs who immigrate through a regional center pilot program. 
   In 2003, Congress asked the U.S. Government Accountability Office, GAO, to study the EB-5 program. The GAO report concluded that the program has been under-used for a variety of reasons, including the rigorous application process and the failure to issue regulations implementing the 2002 law. The report found that even though few people have used the EB-5 category, EB-5 participants have invested an estimated $1 billion in a variety of U.S. businesses. 
   My amendment expresses the sense of Congress that, to the extent possible, qualifying investments should be made in targeted employment areas, including rural areas and areas of high unemployment. My amendment defines rural areas as an area other than an area within a metropolitan statistical area within the outer boundary of any city or town having a population of 20,000 or more based upon the most recent decennial census of the United States. My amendment also defines an area of high unemployment as an area that has experienced unemployment of at least 150 percent of the national average rate. 
   The purpose of my amendment is to ensure that all of America will benefit from greater development and investment. The amendment is a bold first step in ensuring that all Americans have a seat at the table and are able to progress and advance as a result of foreign investment as Americans in the wealthy cities and suburbs. I have long championed the rights of Americans in the rural areas and in underserved communities. These Americans are our brothers and sisters. To be sure, no Americans should be left out from investment. My amendment makes sure that these groups that are often forgotten are not left out.  
   Ms. ZOE, LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT IMPROVEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5593, the ``Congressional Review Improvement Act.'' I am proud to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this timely legislation. I would like to thank my colleague, Congresswoman LINDA S&#193;NCHEZ, for introducing this bill, and for providing leadership on this important issue. 
   I support this bill. It eliminates waste by minimizing the production of paper that is required to be provided to Congress. It should reduce duplicative paperwork and eliminate waste. These reduction and minimization of waste standards provided by this bill should result in a substantial cost savings to the Federal Government. In times like we are in now, it is important that the Government cut costs. I support this bill. It is a first step in cutting needless and excessive costs. 
   The congressional review mechanism of agency rules, known as the Congressional Review Act, CRA, requires that all agencies promulgating a rule must submit a report to both Houses of Congress and to the GAO. According to the CRA, the report must contain a copy of the rule, a concise general statement describing the rule, and the proposed effective date of the rule. A rule cannot take effect if the report is not submitted. Each House must then send a copy of the report to the chairman and the ranking member of each jurisdictional committee. The promulgating agency must then submit to the GAO: (1) a complete copy of the cost-benefit analysis; (2) a description of the agency's actions; and (3) other relevant information required under any other act or executive order. This information must also be made available to each House. 
   H.R. 5593 amends the current law, to reduce paperwork. The primary purpose of the legislation is to ensure that the same material is not submitted, housed, and printed at four different Government entities. H.R. 5593 eliminates the requirement that agencies submit paper copies of their rules that are printed in the Federal Register to each House while continuing a referral of all rules printed in the Federal Register and the periodic indication of those referrals in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. Instead, both the House and Senate would receive a weekly list of rules from the GAO and then the House and Senate would put that list in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 
   This bill eliminates the excessive duplication and printing of rules. No longer are the rules housed at four Government agencies. Under this bill, the House would receive a weekly list of rules that would then be added to the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. This bill adds a commonsense approach to rulemaking, the printing, publication and dissemination of those rules. It is simple and the reforms that it brings should yield a substantial cost savings to the U.S. Treasury. 
   I am proud to support this bill because it eliminates duplicative and needless paperwork and should provide a cost savings. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CIVIL RIGHTS FOR THE DISABLED -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to enthusiastically support the legislation that we just debated on the floor of the House. Having been detained in my Committee on Transportation Security and Critical Infrastructure during the debate, I wanted to come and support H.R. 3195, the ADA Restoration Act of 2007. This is truly a civil rights initiative, and it is important to restore the basic support and rights of those who are disabled in America. 
   Unfortunately, through the Supreme Court's narrow decision and definition  of the word ``disability,'' it made it very difficult for individuals with serious health conditions such as epilepsy, diabetes, cancer, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, and severe intellectual impairments to prove that they qualify for protection under the ADA. 
   The Supreme Court narrowed that definition in two ways: one by ruling that mitigation measures that help control an impairment, like medicine or hearing aids or other devices, must be considered a deserving disability; and, two, ruling that the elements of the definition must be interpreted strictly to create a demanding standard for qualifying as disabled. 
   Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. The civil rights of all Americans are an important constitutional element. We hold these truths to be self-evident that we are all created equal. This legislation, H.R. 3195, restores those rights. And I would like to affirm that my vote in the Judiciary Committee was a resounding ``yes.'' The fact that I was detained, I want that to be reflected in the report. 
   This is an important bill. This bill is heavily supported, and I throw my support to a new civil rights law in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STOP CHILD ABUSE IN RESIDENTIAL PROGRAMS FOR TEENS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6358, ``Stop the Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens''. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Education and Labor for bringing this very important legislation to the floor. 
   On Capitol Hill we often debate matters that can address varying viewpoints. I believe that this legislation can only be looked at from two angles--right and wrong. I do believe that this bill must restore the spot check visits by HHS which have been deleted--the agencies in Texas are guilty of many abuses and these visits can save children's lives.  
   They are everybody's children, and nobody's children. They are the forgotten children in the Texas foster care and residential care system. Black, White, Hispanic, and Asian--they all need the love of a mother, the nurturing of a family, and the support of their community. Some of them find homes with caring foster parents or in treatment centers with experienced and caring providers. And some do not. 
   This legislation allows us to keep our children safe with: 
   New national standards for private and public residential programs: 
   Prohibit programs from physically, mentally, or sexually abusing children in their care; 
   Prohibit programs from denying children essential water, food, clothing, shelter, or medical care--whether as a form of punishment or for any other reason; 
   Require that programs only physically restrain children if it is necessary for their safety or the safety of others, and to do so in a way that is consistent with existing Federal law on the use of restraints; 
   Require programs to provide children with reasonable access to a telephone and inform children of their right to use the phone; 
   Require programs to train staff in understanding what constitutes child abuse and neglect and how to report it; and 
   Require programs to have plans in place to provide emergency medical care. 
   Prevent deceptive marketing by residential programs for teens: 
   Require programs to disclose to parents the qualifications, roles, and responsibilities of all current staff members; 
   Require programs to notify parents of substantiated reports of child abuse or violations of health and safety laws; and 
   Require programs to include a link or Web address for the Web site of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which will carry information on residential programs. 
   Hold teen residential programs accountable for violating the law: 
   Require States to inform the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of reports of child abuse and neglect at covered programs and require HHS to conduct investigations of such programs to determine if a violation of the national standards has occurred; and 
   Give HHS the authority to assess civil penalties of up to $50,000 against programs for every violation of the law. 
   Ask States to step in to protect teens in residential programs: Three years after enactment, the legislation would provide certain Federal grant money to States only if they develop their own licensing standards (that are at least as strong as national standards) for public and private residential programs for teens and implement a monitoring and enforcement system, including conducting unannounced site inspections of all programs at least once every 2 years. The Department of Health and Human Services would continue to inspect programs where a child fatality has occurred or where a pattern of violations has emerged. 
   This legislation seeks to protect the unprotected--our children--from abuse, neglect and exploitation. Many of these children are not safe, and their futures are uncertain. The groups serving children and adolescents with mental health or substance use conditions need better regulation. The youth boot camps and other ``alternative placement facilities'' should be forced to provide greater transparency as to the policies and practices of their programs. 
   This legislation is a welcomed and needed response to numerous studies documenting the ineffectiveness of these programs and, in several instances, the tragic deaths as a result of child abuse and neglect as reported by the GAO in October 2007. Too many families struggle mightily in nearly every State to find placements, when appropriate, for their children that will address their complex mental health needs. 
   These facilities flourish, in part, because parents lack the necessary information about the operation and practices of these programs. The promise of help cannot be allowed to obscure the fact that these kinds of programs are not science-based and have not been forthcoming about the incidence of neglect or abuse. 
   This addresses the challenges facing many families. It seeks relief from these risks by (1) establishing standards for these programs that are consistent with current child protection laws; (2) ensuring that personnel are qualified; (3) shifting these programs to be family-centered, as well as culturally and developmentally appropriate; (4) creating mechanisms for the monitoring and enforcement of these goals; (5) calling for greater transparency and accessibility to the compliance of these standards; and (6) providing grants to States for the prevention of child abuse and neglect and for the treatment of children's mental health or substance use conditions. 
   Additionally, the annual report to Congress is an effective tool in ensuring that these critical issues emerge from the shadows and see the light of day. I share the vision and commitment of Chairman MILLER and the Education and Labor Committee in protecting our youth from such predators. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for our children, vote for our families, and vote for H.R. 6358.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3195, the ``ADA Restoration Act of 2007.'' I wholeheartedly support this bill and urge my colleagues to support it also. The changes embodied by this Act, that restore the with Disabilities Act of 1990, ``ADA'', to its original purpose, are long overdue. This is a civil rights bill and the rights of the disabled must be restored. 
   H.R. 3195, the ``ADA Restoration Act of 2007,'' amends the definition of ``disability'' in  the ADA in response to the Supreme Court's narrow interpretation of the definition, which has made it extremely difficult for individuals with serious health conditions--epilepsy, diabetes, cancer, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis and severe intellectual impairments--to prove that they qualify for protection under the ADA. The Supreme Court has narrowed the definition in two ways: (1) by ruling that mitigating measures that help control an impairment like medicine, hearing aids, or any other treatment must be considered in determining whether an impairment is disabling enough to qualify as a disability; and (2) by ruling that the elements of the definition must be interpreted ``strictly to create a demanding standard for qualifying as disabled.'' The Court's treatment of the ADA is at odds with judicial treatment of other civil rights statutes, which usually are interpreted broadly to achieve their remedial purposes. It is also inconsistent with Congress's intent. 
   The committee will consider a substitute that represents the consensus view of disability rights groups and the business community. That substitute restores congressional intent by, among other things: disallowing consideration of mitigating measures other than corrective lenses, ordinary eyeglasses or contacts, when determining whether an impairment is sufficiently limiting to qualify as a disability; maintaining the requirement that an individual qualifying as disabled under the first of the three-prong definition of ``disability'' show that an impairment ``substantially limits'' a major life activity but defining ``substantially limits'' as a less burdensome ``materially restricts; clarifying that anyone who is discriminated against because of an impairment, whether or not the impairment limits the performance of any major life activities, has been ``regarded as'' disabled and is entitled to the ADA's protection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VOTING RIGHTS FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, many might wonder why we  come to the floor of the House and begin to either cite the Bible or begin to associate Congresswoman Norton with the angels flying above, but I love the statistics that she cited, because she mentioned the statistics of churchgoing people in Washington, D.C. So I begin by saying the prayers of the righteous avail us much. Not only has she been praying but she has been working. 
   I would cast the reintroduction of H.R. 328 as the morality of Sojourner Truth that ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON exhibits, and the integrity of Harriet Tubman, for this has been a long journey. But I believe in this new Congress, with this new direction, this simple bill, this premise of equality and justice can finally say our time has come. 
   And if you don't mind, allow me to emulate your eloquence in the simplicity of this bill. H.R. 328 couldn't be more fair. You made it very clear that this is a bill that could not move without bipartisan support. You made the historical pronouncement that when we began to admit States during the era of slavery we admitted a free State and a slave State. 
   Now, we know that there are Democrats and Republicans all across America, but we might imagine that under this bill, H.R. 328, that the State of Utah might elect someone from a different party than myself. Then we might just envision that Washington, D.C. would select and elect someone of my party. How fair could you be? 
   We know that the delegate, who I call Congresswoman, appropriately titled, certainly is valued in the Democratic Party, but this legislation will be fair and balanced because it draws disparate populations that have been denied their birthright from the far ranges of the east coast of America to the far ranges of the western United States. 
   Let me just briefly speak to the issue of birthright. We have spoken so much about citizenship. We have had such outrageous debates on the question of immigration; yet we have left out, for more than 200 years or more, citizens who have shed their blood through the Civil War, the Spanish-American War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, and conflicts in between, the Vietnam War, and the present conflict that we now have. What do you say to parents and relatives, husbands and wives, sisters and brothers of a fallen soldier who happen to have an address in the District of Columbia, someone who offered themselves to stand up for this Nation's flag? I pledge allegiance to the concept of freedom and justice for all. 
   So as we prepare to leave this weekend, Congresswoman, let me thank you for allowing us just a moment to come to the floor as we go into the weekend commemorating the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, who had the opportunity to be called by President Lyndon Baines Johnson to come to the Oval Office to witness the signing of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. I know full well that Dr. King would have wanted to have an amended initiative. I know Dr. King, if living, would be standing by your side and applauding you. 
   Lastly, let me tell you an anecdotal story that I was going to try to ask you to remember, because I could not, but I really thought I was a champion of civil rights when your predecessor, Walter Fauntroy, who as you know would sing us all into marching wherever he wanted us to go, but he told us there was a man called McFarland that was chairman of the District of Columbia, wasn't it? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VOTING RIGHTS FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. McMillan, thank you. That's why I should have whispered to you before I came down. 
   He would tell us that we needed to get on a bus and go to South Carolina to defeat, and I can say this on the floor, I know Mr. McMillan has gone on and is resting in peace, because this gentleman was an obstacle to the freedom, the dignity, and respect. All I knew was to get on this bus and go down to, I would like to say Florence, South Carolina, and go to a place where I was truly unwanted. We all were. In fact, the campaign office, they drove by in a pickup truck and shot at. But I had a sense of purpose and joy for the people of this great District, these patriots. These Americans deserved the equality of a vote. 
   I will go to my seat by simply saying, out of their commitment comes Ms. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON, who I hope will claim the victory of the passage of H.R. 328, and that we will together, with you and your leadership, do the right thing for the patriots of this District.  
   I thank Delegate NORTON for organizing this special order on the ``District of Columbia Fair and Equal House Voting Rights Act,'' bipartisan legislation that she and Congressman TOM DAVIS of Virginia have reintroduced as H.R. 328 in the ll0th Congress. The reintroduction of this legislation provides a second chance for Congress to complete one of the great unfinished tasks of the Civil Rights Movement. This is an opportunity that we should not squander. 
   As Section 2 of H.R. 328 finds, over half a million people living in the District of Columbia lack direct voting representation in the House of Representatives and Senate. Residents of the District of Columbia serve in the military, pay billions of dollars in federal taxes each year, and assume other responsibilities of U.S. citizenship. For over 200 years, the District has been denied voting representation in Congress--the entity that has ultimate authority over all aspects of the city's legislative, executive, and judicial functions. 
   H.R. 328 would permanently expand the U.S. House of Representatives from 435 to 437 seats, providing a vote to the District of Columbia and a new, at-large seat to Utah. Based on the 2000 Census, Utah is the state next in line to enlarge its Congressional delegation. This bill does not give the District statehood, nor does it give the District representation in the Senate. Rather, H.R. 328 treats the District as a Congressional district for the purposes of granting full House representation. 
   Previous Congressional efforts to secure voting representation for the District of Columbia include a proposed 1978 Constitutional amendment, a 1993 statehood bill, and a 2002 voting representation bill. On August 22, 1978, a two-thirds majority in each Chamber of Congress passed the DC Voting Rights Constitutional Amendment, which would have provided District residents voting representation in the House and Senate. The required 38 states did not ratify the amendment within the seven-year time limit. On November 21, 1993, the New Columbia Admission Act, H.R. 51, a statehood bill for the District of Columbia, was defeated in the House by a vote of 277-153. 
   Most recently, on October 9, 2002, then Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman, JOSEPH LIEBERMAN, marked-up his legislation providing Senate and House representation for the District. The Committee reported the bill favorably with a vote of 9-0. However, the Senate did not take up this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, the key provision of H.R. 328 is section 4, which permanently increases the Membership of the House of Representatives from 435 to 437. One seat would be designated for the District of Columbia and the other seat would go to Utah, the state next in line under the 2000 Census apportionment formula. Section 4 also provides that the new seat established in Utah shall be an at-large seat. This at-large seat shall exist until all congressional seats are reapportioned for the 2012 election. 
   Mr. Speaker, passage of the DC Fair and Equal House Voting Rights Act and would be a simple act of justice. After all, the legislation is vote-neutral in that it does not advantage any political party over another; the bill commands wide bipartisan support; and most important, the bill is constitutional. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank Mr. Castle and Ms. DeGette for their outstanding leadership. 
   Might I just simply call the roll: Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's, ALS, cancer, spinal cord injuries, and the many soldiers that are in the hospitals of America, Walter Reed, Bethesda, who have suffered from spinal cord injuries in the battle of Iraq and Afghanistan. We owe them hope. We owe them hope for the hopeless. 
   As I listened to my friends talk about the existing research, let it be clear that the NIH approved lines lack the genetic diversity that researchers need in order to develop effective treatment for millions of Americans. 
   We know that there is amniotic fluid, and there is some suggestion that that is a substitute. But George Daley from Harvard says that these newly discovered cells are not a replacement for embryonic stem cells. On the contrary, research for these is entirely complimentary. 
   As Michael J. Fox has said, I respect and counsel and thank those who prayerfully disagree with me. I respect their moral standing. But ethicists and others believe this is the right way to go. Let us give hope to the hopeless. Support stem cell research.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3, the ``Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007.'' Once again we find ourselves in a position to pass a bill that will provide our nation's scientists with the valuable opportunity to save lives. It is our duty as representatives of the people to help Americans who are suffering. 
   In 1998, the very first stem cells were isolated, leading to the immediate realization of the enormous possibilities this discovery presents. Suddenly treatments, even cures, seemed possible for devastating illnesses like Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), cancer, and spinal cord injuries. 
   Despite restrictions on federal funding imposed by President Bush in 2001, the states of California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Illinois, and Maryland have provided funding for this important research. In 2005 and again last year, we learned that in spite of the President's continued opposition to stem cell research, support for it in Congress transcended party lines. 
   Unfortunately, the embryonic stem cells currently permitted by law for research are not sufficient for scientists needs. According to the National Institute of Health (NIH), of more than 60 stem cell lines that were declared eligible for federal funding in 2001, only about 22 lines are actually available for study by and distribution to researchers. These NIH-approved lines lack the genetic diversity that researchers need in order to develop effective treatments for millions of Americans. Opponents of this bill repeat statistics on the little progress that has been made with embryonic stem cell research, but I must remind them that the restrictions placed on it have greatly hindered its success. 
   In spite of recent scientific breakthroughs that suggest alternate means of obtaining stem cells, I must caution my colleagues from thinking that embryonic stem cell research is no longer necessary. I applaud Dr. Anthony Atala and his team at Wake Forest University and Harvard University for their very recent outstanding discoveries. However, I must repeat the caution of Harvard researcher George Daley in saying that these newly discovered cells ``are not a replacement for embryonic stem cells''--on the contrary, research for these is entirely complementary. In addition, while we know very little about these new methods, much progress has already been made in the research of embryonic, or pluripotent, stem cells, the most adaptable and  unique of all the stem cell varieties. They currently provide scientists with the most possibilities for research and for the discovery of life-saving treatments; as such, we must allow these scientist the opportunity to do so. 
   It is understandable that many Americans may have moral conflicts with this issue, but this bill is ethical in every respect. First, embryonic stem cells are only clusters of cells, and do not have the capability to develop into a fetus or a human being. Also, not a single embryo will be destroyed in order for this research to be implemented, because there is no need to do so. It is estimated that more than 400,000 excess frozen embryos exist in the United States today and that tens of thousands, and perhaps as many as 100,000, are discarded every year. 
   Further, H.R. 3 ensures that none of the embryos used in stem cell research is intended for implantation in a woman. All of these embryos would otherwise be discarded. Mr. Speaker, denying people in our nation who suffer from debilitating illnesses the possible medical benefits that could result from embryonic research is not only cruel but a waste of these valuable life-sustaining stem cells. 
   This is indeed a matter of ethics--we cannot morally argue that it is better to deny suffering people hope for a cure. Let us provide all people in this world with possibilities for a better future by supporting stem cell research. Let us create the potential for miracles in the lives of paralyzed individuals, those with cancer, or those in need of organ transplants. 
   This bill provides a limited--yet significant--change in current policy that would result in making many more lines of stem cells available for research. If we limit the opportunities and resources our researchers have today, we only postpone the inevitable breakthrough. Our vote today may determine whether that breakthrough is made by Americans, or not. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill, to vote in favor of scientific innovation, and to vote in favor of a perfect compromise between the needs of science and the boundary of our principles. Finally, the Texas Medical Center is located in Houston, it is a major research site and in desperate need for being giving the hope of Stem Cell Research--I urge support for H.R. 3--Stem Cell Research.   
   January 9, 2007.  Hon. SHEILA JACKSON-LEE, Rayburn HOB, Washington, DC. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE WAR IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you very much. I know this is a Special Order that has drawn the interest of Members from vast regions around America. 
   The important thing is we are Americans, that we want what is best for America, and that is why the Congress created the Baker Commission, not for it to be partisan but for it to be bipartisan, for it to have experts from around the Nation. To my great disappointment, the President stood up, ignored the Congress, the people, the experts, the military experts, and the wisdom that would indicate that it is time now to redeploy our troops. 
   This is a Martin Luther King moment. His birthday will be celebrated this coming Monday. Martin Luther King was courageous enough, as my colleague from Minnesota just said, to have the courage to go against the Vietnam War, realizing it was better to have peace over war and life over death. 
   The President laid out last night an Iraqi-dependent policy for America. They have, in essence, called upon the American people to depend upon this failed government to be the source of our strategy in Baghdad. We now will send some 20,000-plus troops to engage in a nine-district process of dragging people out of their homes on the premise of utilizing Iraqi soldiers and security forces. My question to the President is: Why did we not do this before? 
   Let me say in closing that I want a peaceful solution. I did not vote for the war, but I believe in our military. I believe in America and democracy. Bring the allies to the table in the region, have a political diplomacy, and have our troops backup the Iraqis. We cannot have a foreign policy dependent upon Iraq.  
   Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to speak on the most critical issue facing our country, the war in Iraq. This misguided, mismanaged, and costly debacle was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 2003 despite the opposition of me and 125 other members of the House. To date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history. 
   The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America was led by a great Commander-in-Chief who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job. 
   Mr. Speaker, I say with sadness that we have not that same quality of leadership throughout the conduct of the Iraq War. The results, not surprisingly, have been disastrous. To date, the war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,015 brave servicemen and women (115 in December and 13 in the first 9 days of this month). More than 22,000 Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   Based on media reports, tonight President Bush will not be offering any new strategy for success in Iraq, just an increase in force levels of 20,000 American troops. This reported plan will not provide lasting security for Iraqis. It is not what the American people have asked for, nor what the American military needs. It will impose excessive and unwarranted burdens on military personnel and their families. 
   Mr. Speaker, the architects of the fiasco in Iraq would have us believe that ``surging'' at least 20,000 more soldiers into Baghdad and nearby Anbar province is a change in military strategy that America must embrace or face future terrorist attacks on American soil. Nothing could be further from the truth, as we learned last year when the ``surge'' idea first surfaced among neoconservatives. 
   Mr. Speaker, the troop surge the President will announce tonight is not new and, judging from history, will not work. It will only succeed in putting more American troops in harm's way for no good reason and without any strategic advantage. The armed forces of the United States are not to be used to respond to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's that have done all they can to take responsibility for the security of their country and safety of their own people. The United States cannot do for Iraq what Iraqis are not willing to do for themselves. 
   Troop surges have been tried several times in the past. The success of these surges has, to put it charitably, been underwhelming. Let's briefly review the record: 
   1. OPERATION TOGETHER FORWARD, (JUNE-OCTOBER 2006): 
   In June the Bush administration announced a new plan for securing Baghdad by increasing the presence of Iraqi Security Forces. That plan failed, so in July the White House announced that additional American troops would be sent into Baghdad. By October, a U.S. military spokesman, 
   Gen. William Caldwell, acknowledged that the operation and troop increase was a failure and had ``not met our overall expectations of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.'' [CNN, 12/19/06. Washington Post, 7/26/06. Brookings Institution, 12/21/06.] 
   2. ELECTIONS AND CONSTITUTIONAL REFERENDUM (SEPTEMBER-DECEMBER 2005):
   In the fall of 2005 the Bush administration increased troop levels by 22,000, making a total of 160,000 American troops in Iraq around the constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the elections went off without major violence these escalations had little long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American troops. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org] 
   3. CONSTITUTIONAL ELECTIONS AND FALLUJAH (NOVEMBER 2004-MARCH 2005):
   As part of an effort to improve counterinsurgency operations after the Fallujah offensive in November 2004 and to increase security before the January 2005 constitutional elections U.S. forces were increased by 12,000 to 150,000. Again there was no long-term security impact. [Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. New York Times, 12/2/04.] 
   4. MASSIVE TROOP ROTATIONS (DECEMBER 2003-APRIL 2004):
   As part of a massive rotation of 250,000 troops in the winter and spring of 2004, troop levels in Iraq were raised from 122,000 to 137,000. 
   Yet, the increase did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadr's Najaf uprising and April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American forces.[Brookings Institution, 12/21/06. www.icasualties.org. USA Today, 3/4/04] 
   Mr. Speaker, stemming the chaos in Iraq, however, requires more than opposition to military escalation. It requires us to make hard choices. Our domestic national security, in fact, rests on redeploying our military forces from Iraq in order to build a more secure Middle East and continue to fight against global terrorist networks elsewhere in the world. Strategic redeployment of our armed forces in order to rebuild our nation's fighting capabilities and renew our critical fight in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaeda is not just an alternative strategy. It's a strategic imperative. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is past time for a new direction that can lead to success in Iraq. We cannot wait any longer. Too many Americans and Iraqis are dying who could otherwise be saved. 
   I believe the time has come to debate, adopt, and implement the Murtha Plan for strategic redeployment. I am not talking about ``immediate withdrawal,'' ``cutting and running,'' or surrendering to terrorists, as the architects of the failed Administration Iraq policy like to claim. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq forever or the foreseeable future. 
   I am talking about a strategic redeployment of troops that: Reduces U.S. troops in Iraq to 60,000 within six months, and to zero by the end of 2007, while redeploying troops to Afghanistan, Kuwait, and the Persian Gulf. Engages in diplomacy to resolve the conflict within Iraq by convening a Geneva Peace Conference modeled on the Dayton Accords. Establishes a Gulf Security initiative to deal with  the aftermath of U.S. redeployment from Iraq and the growing nuclear capabilities of Iran. Puts Iraq's reconstruction back on track with targeted international funds. Counters extremist Islamic ideology around the globe through long-term efforts to support the creation of democratic institutions and press freedoms. 
   As the Center for American Progress documents in its last quarterly report (October 24, 2006), the benefits of strategic redeployment are significant: Restore the strength of U.S. ground troops. Exercise a strategic shift to meet global threats from Islamic extremists. Prevent U.S. troops from being caught in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. Avert mass sectarian and ethnic cleansing in Iraq. Provide time for Iraq's elected leaders to strike a power-sharing agreement. Empower Iraq's security forces to take control. Get Iraqis fighting to end the occupation to lay down their arms. Motivate the U.N., global, and regional powers to become more involved in Iraq. Give the U.S. the moral, political, and military power to deal with Iran's attempt to develop nuclear weapons. Prevent an outbreak of isolationism in the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, rather than surging militarily for the third time in a year, the president should surge diplomatically. A further military escalation would simply mean repeating a failed strategy. A diplomatic surge would involve appointing an individual with the stature of a former secretary of state, such as Colin Powell or Madeleine Albright, as a special envoy. This person would be charged with getting all six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait--involved more constructively in stabilizing Iraq. These countries are already involved in a bilateral, self-interested and disorganized way. 
   While their interests and ours are not identical, none of these countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees streaming into their countries. 
   The high-profile envoy would also address the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the role of Hezbollah and Syria in Lebanon, and Iran's rising influence in the region. The aim would not be necessarily to solve these problems, but to prevent them from getting worse and to show the Arab and Muslim world that we share their concerns about the problems in this region. 
   Mr. Speaker, the President's plan has not worked. Doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result is, as we all know, a definition of insanity. It is time to try something new. It is time for change. It is time for a new direction.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SAVING LIVES OF AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is not often that we have such serious moments in the House to save lives, so I rise today to offer to the President an opportunity to not use the United States military for 9/11 calls, to bring our troops home, and to focus on a political-diplomatic solution of solving the contentious civil disunity between Sunnis and Shiites. I oppose the escalation. 
   But I rise today to save the lives of those who suffer from Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's by asking for an outstanding and enthusiastic vote for stem cell research. We must realize that even though amniotic fluid research is going on, it is not a substitute for embryonic stem cell research. 
   We can do this together. We can save American lives. We can do the right thing and ask the President, do not utilize your veto. Help to save the lives of Americans. Bring our troops home, and support stem cell research. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENATOR PAUL SIMON STUDY ABROAD FOUNDATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 1469, the Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Act of 2007. This important piece of legislation seeks to enhance the enrollment, diversity, and range of countries relating to U.S. college study abroad programs. 
   The United States is failing to take full advantage of a valuable tool that should be used to enhance our standing in the world and to improve our national security. Opportunities for students to study abroad is integral to creating intercultural awareness, a globally competent workforce, ensuring America's economic competitiveness, and protecting national security. Students can be powerfully effective diplomats for American culture, democratic values, and foreign policy. 
   H.R. 1469 aims to improve the diversity, the range of countries, and number of students that study abroad while in college. Only about 1 percent of all U.S. college students study abroad, and the vast majority study in Europe. Just 9 percent of those students are minority students, even though African American, Native American, and Hispanic students make up 30 percent of the total U.S. college enrollment. 
   Inspired by the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and the congressionally chartered Lincoln Commission, the Senator Paul Simon Act will create a new government corporation charged with democratizing study abroad for American students the way that the GI Bill democratized higher education. 
   The Simon Foundation Act is visionary legislation sponsored by Senators Richard Durbin and Norm Coleman, and the chairman and ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Lantos and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen. The legislation authorizes $80 million annually for 10 years in order to assist 1 million American students study abroad each year by 2018. This funding from the Department of State budget will directly support student scholarships and organizations like Bardoli Global around the Nation. 
   Bardoli Global is an organization that originated in my congressional district. It exists to provide greater access to study abroad opportunities for outstanding African American, Native American, and Hispanic American student leaders and to make those students globally competent change agents for their communities. The organization's Houston pilot program will soon expand to five other cities across the Nation in 2008. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must act now to enact the vision of the late Senator Paul Simon from Illinois who worked tirelessly to promote a public-private partnership to democratize study abroad. We must act quickly to achieve equity and diversity in study abroad, especially targeting traditionally underrepresented students. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE HOUSTON FOOD BANK ON THEIR 25TH ANNIVERSARY -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I wonder how many of us have experienced hunger in our lives. I wonder how many recognize the number of Americans who go to bed every night hungry. 
   It is for this reason that I rise to salute the Houston Food Bank on its 25th anniversary and to acknowledge the 25 years that the Houston Food Bank, connected to many food banks around America, has served our community, serving nearly 500,000 hungry men, women, children and their families. 
   I would like to express my sincere appreciation and thanks to the staff, the board of directors, volunteers and friends of the Houston Food Bank that have generated this most important and especially deserving organization in our community. 
   Hunger is devastating, but, more importantly, hunger can kill. It can kill, because those who suffer can have low nutrition that leads, if you will, to their vulnerability to disease and, yes, ultimately death. Most Americans are not familiar with the extremes of hunger. But, yet, it faces our community, or we are faced with it every single day. 
   In southeast Texas alone, more than 900,000 people are food insecure, meaning they do not know where their food will come from or the next meal will come from. Many children go to school, and their only meal are the free lunches and breakfasts. 
   So it is with great honor and privilege that I pay tribute to the Houston  Food Bank and for the celebration that they had today on the steps of City Hall. I was delighted to be able to briefly attend, as I headed back to Washington, and I am even more privileged to be able to salute them tonight. 
   Might I also acknowledge the End Hunger Network, whose programs remove the barriers, lack of transportation, marketing and experience, that prevent Houston from using available food resources. They are a very able partner to the Houston Food Bank. 
   But let me acknowledge again that this organization that acknowledges the fact that nearly 900,000 individuals in southeast Texas are food insecure and this very organization that on a given day in the greater Houston area, where more than 33,000 people suffer from hunger, the Houston Food Bank feeds more than 80,000 people each week, because they are very much aware of the struggles that people who cannot feed themselves or provide for themselves engage in. 
   This organization was first developed in the mid-1960s by retired businessman John van Engel, using surplus crops from local farmers. The Houston Food Bank first opened on March 8, 1982, operating from a donated storefront in a local shopping center. 
   That organization now is on the 59 North freeway in the 18th Congressional District, which is my congressional district. During its first year alone, the organization was able to distribute 1 million pounds of food to hungry families in the Houston area. By 1984, the Houston Food Bank had joined the Second Harvest Network, an organization formed in the mid-1970s, to set up food banks throughout the country. This is part of a national commitment and a national passion, a national avocation. 
   I believe that we should, in our lifetime, stamp out hunger. By the end of 1984, the Houston Food Bank was handling more than 3 million pounds of food. Since that time, the Houston Food Bank has continued to exponentially expand its operations, moving to a new permanent home and reaching more and more needy citizens, again located in the 18th Congressional District. 
   My community has also been represented in the past by the Honorable Mickey Leland. The Houston Food Bank is a tribute to him. Mickey Leland lost his life on the side of an Ethiopian mountain trying to deliver food to the starving Ethiopians in the 1980s. 
   Today around the world, people are hungry, and here in the United States they remain hungry. One in four children in Houston lives at or below the poverty level. On any given day, as I said earlier, 33,000 gulf coast residents are hungry. But we are grateful for the Houston Food Bank for its 38 million pounds of food distribution last year, the 80,000 people fed each week, nearly 400 hunger programs that are supported by the food bank in 18 southeast Texas counties, church food pantries, homeless shelters, safe havens for the battered and abused, nutrition sites for children and the elderly, more than 100,000 volunteer hours contributed annually, and 73,000 square foot central warehouse and other space truck fleet. We can be assured of the fact that the Houston Food Bank is on the front lines of the war against hunger. It is my privilege to pay tribute to them today for 25 years of selfless, hard work of the volunteers and the leadership of their organization. 
   Might I acknowledge, Mr. Speaker, as I close that they also serve the Kids Cafe, the Backpack Buddy Club, Operation Frontline, Community Kitchen Culinary Academy, and today Kroger food store gave $100,000 to the Houston Food Bank. 
   Keep the fight up for another 25 years for together we will stamp out hunger.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to pay tribute to the Houston Food Bank, on the occasion of their 25th anniversary. For the past 25 years, the Houston Food Bank has been serving our community, feeding nearly 500,000 hungry men, women, and children. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the staff, Board of Directors, volunteers, and friends of the Houston Food Bank for all their courageous work, and commend them for making a positive difference in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in the Houston area. 
   Hunger is a devastating condition that plagues communities in America, as well as nations throughout the world. We have all experienced the symptoms of temporary hunger, and we know all too well the lethargy, weakness, and inability to concentrate that hunger pains can cause. Even with this knowledge, it is difficult to imagine living with these symptoms daily, always wondering where the next bit of nourishment will come from. It is unthinkable to fathom the plight of parents, forced to choose between feeding their children and paying to heat their homes. It is nearly impossible to envision the prospect of facing the world with a perpetually empty stomach. 
   And yet, this is a scenario that is all too real for hundreds of thousands of Americans. In southeast Texas alone, more than 900,000 people are ``food insecure,'' or they do not know where their next meal will come from. Nationwide, the statistics are just as staggering, with one in 100 households experiencing hunger, and 11.9% of families nationwide suffering from food insecurity. 
   Particularly vulnerable are children. In southeast Texas, 44% of those hungry are under 18 years old, while nationally one in every five children does not know where their next meal will be found. These children suffer particularly in the summer, when schools are closed. Mr. Speaker, our children should be concerned about their grades in school; they should spend their days studying, dreaming up and planning future careers, engaging in athletic activities, and socializing with their friends. They should not be expected to worry about food; they should not have to wonder where they might find proper nourishment. 
   Into this bleak situation come organizations like the Houston Food Bank. Food banks were first developed in the mid-1960s by retired businessman John van Engel, using surplus crops from local farmers. The Houston Food Bank first opened on March 8, 1982, operating from a donated store-front in a local shopping center. During its first year alone, the organization was able to distribute 1,000,000 pounds of food to hungry families in the Houston area. 
   By 1984, the Houston Food Bank had joined the Second Harvest Network, an organization formed in the mid-1970s to set up food banks throughout the country. By the end of 1984, the Houston Food Bank was handling more than 3,000,000 pounds of food. Since that time, the Houston Food Bank has continued to exponentially expand its operations, moving to a new permanent home and reaching more and more needy citizens. 
   Today, the Houston Food Bank distributes 38 million pounds of food each year to nearly 400 hunger agencies in 18 counties in southeast Texas. This food reaches 80,000 different people each week, and about 498,000 people a year. These numbers are absolutely staggering. That's nearly 500,000 grateful men, women, and children, who, thanks to the tireless efforts of the staff, volunteers, and supporters of the Houston Food Bank are granted some security in their uncertain worlds. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am particularly proud to mention the Houston Food Bank's programs for children. Of the 80,000 individuals that the food bank feeds each week, about 44% are children. Children who are hungry cannot concentrate in school; they will not have the energy to play sports or enjoy other activities with their peers. They are also more prone to illnesses and other health issues. With these unfortunate facts in mind, the Houston Food Bank has developed the Kid's Caf&#233; program, one of the nation's largest nutrition education programs, providing children with the nourishment they may not get at home. Through the collaboration of local chefs, dietitians, students and volunteers, Kid's Caf&#233; is able to provide 500 kids each month with nutritious meals in safe surroundings. The program goes on to emphasize food safety, nutrition education, and hands-on instruction, helping to instill in these children the skills and knowledge they need to create healthy lifestyles. 
   The Houston Food Bank also touches the lives of needy children through the Backpack Buddy Club. Because many hungry children receive meager or no meals on weekends, the Houston Food Bank has implemented a program to give children backpacks, filled with food that is child-friendly, nonperishable, easily consumed and vitamin fortified, every Friday in participating schools. This program ensures that local children can receive proper nutrition even on days that they are not in the classroom. 
   In addition to these two programs, the Houston Food Bank operates a number of other initiatives designed to provide nutrition education, outreach, and job training to the local community. These programs are crucial to the development of positive nutrition habits, and they speak to the very real long-term needs of the community. 
   The Houston Food Bank has also proven its leadership in disaster relief, successfully accommodating the sharp increases in demand following the catastrophic Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Since September 2005, volunteers  traveling from as far away as Hawaii have distributed nearly 9 million pounds of food in disaster relief. The Houston Food Bank successfully provided relief to hurricane evacuees displaced from their homes, their belongings, and their livelihoods. Organizations like the Houston Food Bank have been a crucial aspect of ensuring that hurricane victims have felt welcome and well-treated in Houston. 
   In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Brian Greene, the President and CEO of the Houston Food Bank, together with the Board of Directors, the staff, the many dedicated volunteers, and all other supporters of the Houston Food Bank. These individuals are making a profound impact in their local community, and they are changing the worlds of thousands of hungry children. I thank you for your service to our community and your compassion to your fellow humans, and I wish you every success in future endeavors.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA TO STOP GENOCIDE AND VIOLENCE IN DARFUR, SUDAN -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 422, calling on the People's Republic of China to use their influence and economic leverage with the Government of Sudan to stop the genocide and violence in Darfur. I am proud to join a large number of my colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, in cosponsoring this important legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, we stand in serious risk of allowing the ongoing slaughter in Darfur to become one of the blackest marks on humankind's history. This is absolutely unacceptable. It has been nearly 3 years since we in Congress declared that ``the atrocities unfolding in Darfur, Sudan, are genocide,'' a sentiment that has been repeated only recently by President Bush, who went on to say ``we have a moral obligation to stop it.'' Congress has been outspoken in expressing a bipartisan consensus of disgust at the atrocious human rights abuses committed in the western region of Sudan. 
   Genocide in Darfur continues to play out on our watch. Current estimates put the death toll at 450,000 people, with an additional two million driven from their homes and livelihoods into wandering uncertainty or refugee camps. More than 3.5 million people within Darfur are currently entirely reliant on the international community for the crucial aid that might enable them to survive. 
   Some valuable foundations have been laid. The 22,500-strong U.N. peacekeeping mission authorized by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1706 is absolutely necessary to boost the brave but struggling African Union forces already in the region. These U.N. soldiers must be deployed immediately in Sudan, and given unimpeded access to the Darfur region. We must continue to press this issue until U.N. boots are actually on the ground in Darfur. 
   To do this, we must step up pressure on China. As the principle export destination of Sudanese oil, China is complicit in the genocide perpetrated by the Sudanese government. However, the immense economic and diplomatic weight wielded by the Chinese government could be used to great effect in ending the killing in Darfur, if applied to that end. It remains my hope that China may be persuaded to provide the type of constructive leadership in Sudan befitting a great power. 
   To this end, this resolution strongly urges China to acknowledge and condemn the atrocities in Darfur, to cease all military arms and related sales, to suspend economic cooperation with the Government of Sudan, and to work to positively influence the Government of Sudan to achieve a number of specific objectives, including the full compliance with Security Council Resolutions. 
   As China prepares to host the 2008 Summer Olympics, I believe we should expect China to work to live up to its own Olympic slogan: ``One World. One Dream.'' The time for admirable speeches and impassioned rhetoric, valuable though these are, has passed. The people of Darfur need definitive action and decisive leadership, and they need it now. Now is the moment to seize upon bipartisan common ground, and to work together to respond actively, to fulfill our humanitarian promises, and to finally help bring an end to this shameful chapter in human history. This bill is an important, definitive, and imaginative step toward this goal, and I commend my colleague for introducing this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, Darfur continues to burn on our watch. Since the genocide began, we have commemorated both the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, and the 10th anniversary of the Rwandan genocide with candles and powerful speeches of regret. We have expressed a bipartisan consensus against the genocide, and yet it continues. 
   Though we in Congress are currently faced with a number of important and pressing issues vying for our attention, Darfur must be made a priority, and it must remain so until the genocide has ended. I strongly support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do so as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE SUPPORT OF CONGRESS FOR THE CREATION OF A NATIONAL HURRICANE MUSEUM AND SCIENCE CENTER IN SOUTHWEST LOUISIANA -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 54, which supports the creation of a National Hurricane Museum and Science Center in Southwest Louisiana. The creation of a National Hurricane Museum and Science Center in southwest Louisiana will serve as a historical reminder for all Americans as well as the rest of the world of the importance of disaster preparedness. 
   We must not forget the depths of the devastation and despair of Hurricane Katrina that resulted from the lack of proactive disaster planning and preparedness. Hurricane Katrina was the costliest and one of the deadliest hurricanes in the history of the United States. It was the sixth-strongest Atlantic hurricane ever recorded and the third-strongest hurricane on record that made landfall in the United States. Katrina formed on August 23 during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season and caused devastation along much of the north-central Gulf Coast of the United States. Most notable in media coverage were the catastrophic effects on the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, and in coastal Mississippi. Due to its sheer size, Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast as far as 100 miles from the storm's epicenter. 
   Mr. Speaker, the images of the detriment and devastation remain deeply etched in my mind and much of the remnants of the tragedy still remain in those communities today. The storm surge caused severe and catastrophic damage along the Gulf coast, devastating the cities of Bay St. Louis, Waveland, Biloxi/Gulfport in Mississippi, Mobile, Alabama, and Slidell, Louisiana and other towns in Louisiana. Levees separating Lake Pontchartrain and several canals from New Orleans were breached a few days after Hurricane Katrina had subsided, subsequently flooding 80% of the city and many areas of neighboring parishes for weeks. In addition, severe wind damage was reported well inland. 
   Although we continue to mourn the loss of the thousands of victims who perished in Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath, we must still push forward to gain knowledge and insight about these disastrous hurricanes and their effects on the public. The Hurricane Center has the potential to provide a great source of educational service to the American public as concerns about the rapidly changing climate in hurricane-prone regions rise. 
   The Hurricane Center will not only educate but also motivate the young and the old in the fields of meteorology, environmental science, sociology, conservation, economics, history, communications, and engineering. In addition, the Hurricane Center can benefit everyone by providing resources that inform the public on preparing, surviving and recovering from natural disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. Hopefully, this will enable us to avoid such needless and devastating results as those from Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath. 
   Examining technology, engineering, and preservation of natural barriers all can help to reduce the impact of hurricanes. It is only appropriate that the effects of hurricanes and the rebuilding efforts be captured in a comprehensive center such as a National Hurricane Museum and Science Center to interpret the effects of hurricanes in and outside of Louisiana. For these reasons, I strongly support H. Con. Res. 54 and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the creation of a Museum and Science Center that will serve to remind and educate Americans about the importance of hurricane disaster preparedness.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING VIOLENCE IN ESTONIA AND ATTACKS ON ESTONIA'S EMBASSIES IN 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 397, which condemns violence in Estonia and attacks on that country's embassies in 2007. It also expresses solidarity with the government and the people of Estonia. 
   This past April 27, a crowd of more than 1,000 pro-Russian demonstrators gathered in Tallin, the capital city of Estonia. The gathering became unruly and riots broke out across the city. In the end, over 150 people were injured and one person died from stab wounds. 
   On May 2, the Estonian Ambassador was physically attacked by protesters during an official press conference. That same day, the Swedish Ambassador to Russia was assaulted when he left the Estonian Embassy in Moscow. 
   Since the initial riots in Tallin, this wave of violence continued, and the Estonian Government has reported other coordinated attacks against its embassies in Helsinki, Oslo, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Riga, Prague, and Kiev, among other cities. The Estonian Government, with the assistance of NATO, has been investigating cyber attacks against the government's website, as well as against the computer systems of political parties, banks, and media organizations. The Estonian Government estimates that these attacks have cost the targets tens of millions of euros. 
   Estonia is a well respected member of NATO and the European Union. These incidents of violence have been condemned by a host of European institutions. The European Commission and NATO have expressed their solidarity with Estonia and urged Russia to respect its obligations under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is appropriate that this House also express its disapproval of the unjustified attacks against Estonia. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution, which denounces violence in Estonia and attacks against its embassies, while also expressing solidarity with the government and people of the great nation of Estonia.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in 2007, Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida and Illinois in pre-foreclosures. We're reminded of Franklin Delano Roosevelt who said we have nothing to fear but fear itself. We certainly have to face fear and to be able to respond to this collapse in mortgages and our economic markets, by resolve and not fear. 
   And so this is not a bailout. It's a helping hand. It's what Franklin Delano Roosevelt did to restore this country, and it worked. We survived. 
   And so this tells us that we can survive, providing $10 billion in low-income tax credits for low-income homeowners and to also build rental properties. We also give a $7,500 tax credit for first time home buyers and a $700 tax credit for those who are paying property taxes. 
   And it does fix the GSEs. It does provide an opportunity to get us out of this mortgage foreclosure hold, but it does it in the right way. It's not scandalous. It's not illegal. It allows us to be able to have the mortgage owner sell it back to FHA at a lower price; the lower mortgage is then backed by FHA, and it isn't a gimmick. It's not a flipover. Any profit made by the homeowner comes back to the government if the property is later sold. 
   And we protect our disabled veterans, those who have fallen upon hard times. They can still be in the program even if they are in bankruptcy. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bill responds to the homeless and the helpless. What it does say is those who are living from hand-to-hand, who are living in their parents' homes, who have been thrown out of their home, who have been thrown out because they're in rental property, this is a fix and the life and the spirit of what America is all about. 
   We don't believe in giving a fish. We believe in giving a fishing rod. This is an even-handed, balanced way between the House and the Senate to provide tax relief but also to be able to provide the construct and the infrastructure to get our houses back together, along with our stabilization bill that says we're going to buy back foreclosed homes and give them to people who need them. 
   Is there anything wrong with America rising to be higher angels and helping our fellow brothers and sisters?  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3221, the ``American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008''. This momentous legislation would jump-start the market for mortgages by establishing a true market value for the securities backed by these loans. 
   H.R. 3221 responds directly to the current housing crisis facing this country, while providing the tools to prevent a repeat of these problems. 
   This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today. This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. As President Franklin Delano Roosevelt stated in 1933, ``the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' We must do just that. We must move forward and that is exactly what H.R. 3221 seeks to do. 
   This legislation will begin to repair, not bail out the economy, restoring confidence in the markets, limiting the damage to families and neighborhoods, and rejuvenating the communities with new affordable housing. Ironically, we celebrate the bailouts of yesteryear, when we believed that the power of the federal government was needed to get the country out of the Depression. 
   Were the banking reform laws, emergency relief programs, work relief programs, and agricultural programs, the Social Security Act, and programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers--were these bailouts? Many of the New Deal programs under President Roosevelt were considered bailouts at that time. And yet, these programs brought our country out of the Depression, rejuvenated our economy, and gave hope as we sought to deal with the War overseas. 
   TEXAS 
   In 2007, Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in pre-foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active foreclosures. 
   H.R. 3221 helps homeowners and only homeowners, not speculators or lenders. We cannot continue to stand by as things get worse. Texas reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, a 16% increase from the previous month and the most foreclosure filings reported by any state. The state documented the Nation's third highest state combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 households. 
   Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of losing their homes. 
   While this bill should not be the last word in housing legislation, it is a great beginning. This bill coupled with H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood Stabilization Act, provides a good starting point in providing Americans with relief. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from North Carolina, and I thank the ranking member. I agree with the ranking member's assessment that we can improve the training and the, if you will, work performance in many instances of the TSA screeners. But we also note that there are many hardworking screeners. 
   I chair the subcommittee that oversees the work of TSA as it relates to airport screeners. And the reason the authorizers wanted to not have a cap is because, first of all, the Transportation Security Administration and the screeners staffing are engaging in what we call a spot program. They're dealing with the traveler document checking system. New programs need new personnel, new trained personnel. 
   The cap was lifted in the 9/11 bill for a very important reason. It sends the wrong message for us to cap screeners of airports. Our airports are expanding. Air travel is growing. In fact, we have been looking at the utilization of screening employees in the airport to make the entire airport, front and back, safe. So we all can work toward more professional development for the screeners, the airport screeners; but our work is too important now, and our work is too important going forward, after 9/11, to send this message of capping these employees. 
   I would respectfully oppose the amendment because of the work that we still have to do in securing the Nation's airports. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, might I add my appreciation for the manner in which the chairman has conducted this process with the appropriations of the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee. 
   Let me thank the ranking member of the committee and the chairman of the subcommittee for working with the authorizers. And let me thank my chairman, Chairman Thompson of the full committee, the Homeland Security Committee, for creating the committee which I Chair, the Transportation, Security and Critical Infrastructure. 
   This amendment speaks directly to the immediacy of our concerns about pipeline security, refineries and other critical infrastructure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I am absolutely delighted. It means America will be safer.  
   I thank the Chair for this opportunity to explain my amendment to H.R. 2638, the ``Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year of 2008.'' As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and the chair of the Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee, I am pleased to offer this amendment, which enhances the bill by requiring the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a security vulnerability study of the Nation's pipelines and refineries. 
   Less than two weeks ago, four would-be terrorists were arrested for hatching a plot to blow up John F. Kennedy Airport and swaths of Queens 
   by attacking fuel tanks and an underground pipeline in the hope of igniting a catastrophic explosion that would surpass the horrific devastation visited upon the Nation on September 11. 
   Because of their length, ubiquity, and remoteness, pipelines can be nearly impossible to defend. Natural gas, gasoline, petroleum, and other pipelines can produce catastrophic  fires and explosions when they fail. ``Environmental'' damage aside, these events can kill and injure people, and the casualties can be worse when pipelines are located near populated areas. 
   We need to ensure that everything that can be done to secure the Nation's pipelines and refineries is being done. There may be, of course, other actions that pipeline and refinery operators can and must do to reduce the threats terrorists could present. 
   My aim of my amendment is to increase the knowledge base pertaining to potential vulnerabilities of a critically important segment of the Nation's economic infrastructure so that effective countermeasures can be taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
   For these reasons, I urge the adoption of this amendment.  
   Mr. Chairman, I am very happy to yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OFFERING HEARTFELT CONDOLENCES TO THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES REGARDING THE HORRIFIC VIOLENCE AT VIRGINIA TECH AND TO STUDENTS, FACULTY, ADMINISTRATION AND STAFF AND THEIR FAMILIES WHO HAVE BEEN AFFECTED -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the resolution. But I do so with a heart still full of sorrow over a loss so overwhelming. Two days ago, on Monday, April 15, 2007, at Virginia Tech University, one of the nation's great land grant colleges, we witnessed senseless acts of violence on a scale unprecedented in our history. Neither the mind nor the heart can contemplate a cause that could lead a human being to inflict such injury and destruction on fellow human beings. The loss of life and innocence at Virginia Tech is a tragedy over which all Americans mourn and the thoughts and prayers of people of goodwill everywhere go out to the victims and their families. In the face of such overwhelming grief, I hope they can take comfort in the certain knowledge that unearned suffering is redemptive. 
   Mr. Speaker, Virginia Tech is a special place to those who claim membership in  ``Hokie Nation.'' Founded in 1872 as a land-grant college named Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and located in Blacksburg, 38 miles southwest of Roanoke, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, or ``Virginia Tech,'' is now a comprehensive, innovative research university with the largest number of degree offerings in Virginia, more than 100 campus buildings, a 2,600-acre main campus, off-campus educational facilities in six regions, a study-abroad site in Switzerland, and a 1,700-acre agriculture research farm near the main campus. Through a combination of its three missions of teaching and learning, research and discovery, and outreach and engagement, Virginia Tech continually strives to accomplish the charge of its motto: Ut Prosim (That I May Serve). 
   Virginia Tech is home to 28,469 students and 1,304 full-time faculty members, who together created an environment conducive to learning, discovery, and achievement. Little wonder the typical freshman admitted to the Class of 2010 had a high school grade point average of 3.80, and an average cumulative SAT reasoning test score was 1231. ``Hokie Nation,'' is comprised of more than 190,000 living alumni from every state and more than 100 countries. 
   Virginia Tech offers bachelor's degree programs through its seven undergraduate academic colleges: Agriculture and Life Sciences, Architecture and Urban Studies, Engineering, Liberal Arts and Human Sciences, Natural Resources, Pamplin College of Business, and Science. 
   The university offers masters and doctoral degree programs through the Graduate School and a professional degree from the Virginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine. It is also a research powerhouse. In fiscal year 2006, the university generated $321.7 million for research program. Each year, Virginia Tech 
   receives significant external support for research, instruction, Extension, and public service projects. Support for these projects originates from an ever-expanding base of sponsors. Today, nearly 775 sponsors fund more than 3,500 active projects. Researchers pursue new discoveries in agriculture, biotechnology, information and communication technology, transportation, energy management (including leadership in fuel-cell technology and power electronics), and a wide range of other engineering, scientific, social science, and creative fields. This research led to 87 disclosures, 17 patents, and 20 licenses in calendar year 2005. 
   But that seemed to matter little on Monday, which was the last day on earth for more than 30 members of the Virginia Tech family. Among them were future scientists, engineers, teachers, doctors, soldiers, fathers, mothers, friends, and leaders. All of them cut down in a hail of bullets before they reached the prime of their lives. So many promising lives interrupted; so many promising lives wasted. 
   The New York Times noted in its editorial that as the investigation of the Virginia Tech shootings unfolds in coming days, it will be important to ascertain whether there were any hints of the tragedy to come and what might be done to head off such horrors in the future. Campuses are inherently open communities and it is not easy to guarantee a safe haven. 
   But the carnage at Virginia Tech also commands that we here in this body take a stand against senseless acts of violence whether here in our own country or elsewhere around the world. It is long past time for our national community to declare that injuries inflicted on any member of the community by another simply based on hate or hatred of differences poses a threat to the peace and security of the entire community. For that reason alone, such conduct must be condemned and punished severely, if not prevented altogether. 
   As the poet Nikki Giovanni stated so eloquently yesterday in her stirring address at the convocation held by the university yesterday in Blacksburg:  
   We are Virginia Tech. 
   We are sad today, and we will be sad for quite a while. We are not moving on, we are embracing our mourning. 
   We are Virginia Tech. 
   We are strong enough to stand tall tearlessly, we are brave enough to bend to cry, and we are sad enough to know that we must laugh again. 
   We are Virginia Tech. 
   We do not understand this tragedy. We know we did nothing to deserve it, but neither does a child in Africa dying of AIDS, neither do the invisible children walking the night away to avoid being captured by the rogue army, neither does the baby elephant watching his community being devastated for ivory, neither does the Mexican child looking for fresh water, neither does the Appalachian infant killed in the middle of the night in his crib in the home his father built with his own hands being run over by a boulder because the land was destabilized. No one deserves a tragedy. 
   We are Virginia Tech. 
   The Hokie Nation embraces our own and reaches out with open heart and hands to those who offer their hearts and minds. We are strong, and brave, and innocent, and unafraid. We are better than we think and not quite what we want to be. We are alive to the imaginations and the possibilities. We will continue to invent the future through our blood and tears and through all our sadness. 
   We are the Hokies. 
   We will prevail. 
   We will prevail. 
   We will prevail. 
   We are Virginia Tech.  
   Mr. Speaker, we will prevail against senseless acts of violence. We will prevail against uncontrolled rage and anger. We will prevail against hatred and intolerance. 
   Today we are all members of the Hokie Nation. We are Virginia Tech. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, rise in strong support of this legislation. The average American has lost faith in corporate America. The typical consumer perceives these corporations as mighty entities who control this very floor that we speak on, ensuring that the corporations have their needs met at the expense of your average American. However, as members of Congress we represent middle class America, and we have to ensure that their interest are protected and addressed with fair and thoughtful legislation. That is why I am pleased to offer my support to H.R. 1257. 
   As the average pay for non-management workers remains stagnant, corporate executives have enjoyed hefty pay raises. These payouts include the CEO's salary, expense accounts, stock shares, and retirement packages. The underlying legislation does not seek to punish these CEO's, or take from them what they have received. However, this legislation does hold accountable the board members responsible for making decisions on executive compensation although it does not take away their power. 
   This legislation is about transparency. Transparency leads to trust which leads to consumer confidence, which means our economy will benefit in the long run. As Justice Brandeis said long ago, ``sunshine is the best disinfectant. 
   Some may argue that the rise in salaries is in response to a competitive job market with very few qualified individuals. In part that may be true, but this is about protecting the shrinking middle class in a society where the rate of inflation and the cost of living has increased. 
   To my colleagues who oppose this legislation, I ask that you seriously reconsider. In the end we have more to gain when corporations are forthright with business practices, especially as it pertains to executive compensation. The SEC has responded to this issue by revising its disclosure rules regarding executive compensation, but it is not enough. A publicly held corporation owes it to their shareholders, i.e., its investors to give them some type of consideration regarding executive compensation. Many middle class Americans have their 401(k) plans tied into stock options, thus they have a vested interest in what is occurring behind the closed doors of corporate America. 
   I support H.R. 1257, I support middle class America, and I encourage my colleagues to do the same.  
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. All time for general debate has expired. 
   Pursuant to the rule, the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in the bill is considered as an original bill for the purpose of amendment and is considered read. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the chairman of the full Committee on Financial Services and the ranking member. Let me answer, in the course of debating or discussing this amendment, a question that was raised in debate earlier today, and it made the point that nothing is being done. Let me make a resounding point of opposition to that statement and say, yes, something is being done. It is making the shareholders of America stakeholders in the major corporations of America. It's making them relevant. It's making them equal, if you will, to those who make decisions about the termination of employees, the direction of business, and yet have no input from the holders of the company on the compensation of the chief executive. 
   This is a positive step in the right direction. It is a light at the end of the tunnel. And I say that because most recently we heard of the most shocking termination of large numbers of employees of Citicorp. But some 24 hours later, we heard a small voice say that also the CEO would be looking to cut his compensation to let the shareholders know and the employees know that he, too, would experience the pain of cutbacks. 
   My amendment simply augments this legislation by suggesting, or requiring, that the votes that were taken by the shareholders be actually posted. So even though this is a nonbinding vote, all might be able to see. And I know that there are certainly other means of reporting this particular vote count, but I think it would be important to do so. 
   Now, let me indicate that I want this bill to pass, and frankly, I want to find every way that we never have an Enron or WorldCom where individuals such as a Mr. Fastow had an enormous latitude of salary but wasn't worried about bringing the company down. I want to work with this committee as we move forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, let me indicate in conclusion my desire to work with this committee, particularly since such a great impact has been experienced by those in the Houston area and certainly around the country. 
   With that in mind, my intent was, of course, to further enhance the rights of stakeholders and shareholders. I look forward to working with the chairman and more importantly look forward to the compliance when this bill becomes law so that all are, if you will, in concert with the prompt and efficient leadership of America's corporations.  
   Thank you for the opportunity to speak on my amendment to H.R. 1257, the ``Shareholder Vote on Executive Compensation Act.'' My amendment is a step towards transparency. 
   By requiring the company to post in a prominent place, on the company's website the results of any shareholder votes on executive compensation, shareholders, consumers, and the general public will regain their confidence in corporate America. 
   My amendment is non-controversial and makes sense, and its Shareholders, employees, vendors, and the public have a vested interest in transparency, especially in light of the numerous corporate scandals that have occurred in recent years. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. Executive salaries have risen dramatically, while the average American worker continues to struggle. 
   My amendment and the underlying bill will hold board members accountable for their decisions regarding executive compensation. While many on the other side of the aisle have mentioned unintended consequences in their objection to this legislation, I will mention the real consequences. The real consequence of passing this legislation along with my amendment is the positive message we will send to the American people. That message is that we, Members of Congress are more concerned with the problems facing the struggling middle class than we are in helping corporate CEO's hide the amount of their compensation from the American people. I urge you to support my amendment.  
   Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw this amendment. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Without objection, the amendment is withdrawn. 
   There was no objection.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RELIEF FOR ENTREPRENEURS: COORDINATION OF OBJECTIVES AND VALUES FOR EFFECTIVE RECOVERY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise enthusiastically to support the Relief for Entrepreneurs: Coordination of Objectives and Values for Effective Recovery Act of 2007, to solve the frustration of those in my district who are fleeing Hurricane Katrina, and I thank the gentlewoman.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 1361, the Recovery Act of 2007, which amends the Small Business Act to direct the Small Business Administration (SBA) to develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive written disaster response plan and to maintain a disaster reserve corps; to establish an Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance; to authorize SBA disaster loans for incidents of national significance; to direct the Administrator to carry out an immediate Disaster Assistance program; to provide a revised disbursement process for SBA disaster loans; to provide enhanced lending authority for private lenders; to authorize SBA grants to small businesses located in disaster areas upon their certification that they will reestablish the business in the same area; and to require annual SBA reports on disaster assistance operations. 
   Mr. Chairman, I applaud Chairwoman Vel&#225;zquez for bringing this bill to the floor and in doing so acknowledging that we need to be better prepared to respond to the needs of disaster victims from the affected areas. In the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, we all saw the devastating consequences that came from not having disaster preparedness plans in place.  
   After those devastating hurricanes, small businesses and in particular minority and disadvantaged businesses, in the affected areas were severely and negatively impacted because they did not receive financial support necessary to rebuild their businesses and participate in the rebuilding of the affected community. 
   The Homeland Security Committee has learned that small businesses in particular are very important to economic recovery and stability in an affected region in the aftermath of a disaster-regardless of whether the disaster is natural or man-made. The Committee also has learned that it is good common sense to use the local business owners in the disaster recovery process because they are most connected, and knowledgeable about the local area and what the local community needs. 
   That is why I offered two amendments to H.R. 1361 that would require the Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator to include in its disaster recovery processes, pre-negotiated contracts and to encourage inclusion of local, minority, and disadvantaged businesses in the disaster recovery response process. 
   My first amendment would have encouraged the SBA to include local businesses from the affected area in the recovery process and to have in place in advance pre-negotiated contracts with these local businesses. Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and have proven that failure to include small businesses in the recovery process was detrimental to speedy and efficient recovery for the affected areas and lead to astronomical costs for the affected areas as well as the entire country. These costs include money, time and lives. These are costs that we cannot afford to pay in future disasters. 
   I also offered an amendment that would encourage the inclusion of minority and disadvantaged businesses in the disaster recovery response plans. In the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, small, minority, and disadvantaged businesses from the region were shut out of disaster-related contracts because goals and preferences were not in place. We must correct this very serious problem that is often representative of problems that the most vulnerable members of our society consistently face. 
   Mr. Chairman, the federal contracting goal for small, minority and disadvantaged businesses is a 23% participation rate as set forth by the Small Business Administration. My amendment that I offered would have required the SBA to include in its comprehensive response plan, a contracting goal and work to meet that goal. If the SBA plans well, then this goal should be achievable. 
   I understand that the bill also allows for mitigation loans and grants. We would hope that the SBA encourages similar inclusion measures with respect to minority and disadvantaged businesses in its loan and grant authorizations as those used in federal contracting in general. 
   Since the late 1960s, it has been the policy of the federal government to assist small businesses owned by minorities and women to become fully competitive, viable business concerns. As a result, the Small Business Administration set forth government-wide goals to level the playing field for small and minority businesses seeking federal government contracts. My amendment to encourage the inclusion of minority and disadvantaged businesses in the disaster loan and grant process would have gone a long way to meet these goals. If these businesses are disadvantaged before disasters occur, then those who are negatively impacted after disasters would presumably suffer exponentially and disproportionately. Therefore, it is especially crucial to encourage the inclusion of minority and disadvantaged businesses in the disaster mitigation loan and grant recovery process. 
   We have seen over and over again the incredible need to include local, minority and disadvantaged businesses in the recovery and rebuilding process. It is time to seriously address this extremely important need. 
   I urge the Committee to support H.R. 1361 and to be ever-mindful of the need to include local, minority and disadvantaged businesses in disaster recovery response plans. Further, I vigorously oppose the Chabot amendment, which one in particular is particularly punitive against a business suffering from disaster by requesting a recipient of a grant to pay an SBA disaster loan back that they may have received.  
   Ms. VEL&#193;ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Ellsworth). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE RUTGERS UNIVERSITY WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 300, which congratulates the Rutgers University Women's Basketball Team, coached by the incomparable C. Vivian Stringer, on their extraordinary basketball achievements and applauds their character and integrity as student-athletes. The Rutgers Lady Scarlet Knights women's basketball team embodies all that is great about women's sports: intelligence, toughness, tenacity, leadership and, most of all, class. 
   The Lady Scarlet Knights also showed the power of athletics in unifying a community, be it Rutgers University, the entire state of New Jersey, or the United States.  
   That is why it was so disheartening that certain individuals would take this occasion to utter a few disgusting and divisive comments. I strongly condemned those words. There is absolutely no excuse for that kind of conduct, and Don Imus was right to apologize. 
   What we must do now is address this situation as a country. We must start a dialogue that not only helps to heal the wounds that this type of hateful language renews, but also brings us to a better place as a society. 
   The Rutgers women's basketball team has been a great inspiration to all of us in this country. These young women are some of the best our country has to offer, and they set an example for girls all across New Jersey and the United States. 
   The Lady Scarlet Knights completed a dream season, making it all the way to the national championship game where they fell to the Lady Vols (34-3) of the University of Tennessee. The Scarlet Knights (27-9) were appearing in their first-ever championship contest. They made it to the championship game by winning eight consecutive games, including the Big East Conference Tournament and the championship of the Greensboro Regional. 
   The Lady Scarlet Knights are champions. Congratulations to C. Vivian Stringer, her coaching staff and her exceptional basketball team. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE 53,000 SOLDIERS, SAILORS, AIRMEN, MARINES, AND CIVILIANS THAT COMPRISE THE NATION'S SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES COMMUNITY -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 305, which honors the 53,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and civilians that comprise the Nation's Special Operations Forces community. This week marks the 20th anniversary of the Command's founding on April 16, 1987, at congressional direction, pursuant to passage of the Goldwater-Nichols Defense Reorganization Act of 1986. The unique structure of the Command ensures joint training, equipping, planning, and operations. Special Operations Forces personnel are currently executing their duties in over 50 nations throughout the world.  
   The Special Operations Command was created following a congressional assessment of the unsuccessful attempt to rescue 53 American hostages held in Iran in 1980. Among the major shortcomings identified was the inability of the military to operate effectively in a joint manner, particularly due to differences in equipment and lack of coordinated training. This deficiency was directly addressed by the establishment of the Special Operations Command, which allowed for the creation of a truly joint force with the authority to organize, train, and equip for complex national security challenges. 
   The Special Operations Command currently consists of over 53,000 individuals, including Army Special Forces personnel, Air Force Special Operations personnel, U.S. Navy SEALs, and Marine Special Operators. Its core tasks include counter-terrorism, counter-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, foreign internal defense, special reconnaissance, direct action, psychological and information operations, civil-military operations, unconventional warfare, and the ``synchronization'' of the war against terrorism. 
   I fully support the Command's ongoing commitment to its primary focus of neutralizing terrorists and destroying their associated networks. The Command should be encouraged and fully resourced to balance its focus between ``direct'' and ``indirect'' action--or between the ``kinetic'' mission and the effort to ``win the hearts and minds.'' I also believe that greater emphasis should be afforded to humanitarian and counter-insurgency missions. 
   I sincerely appreciate the efforts and sacrifices of the 53,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and civilians that comprise the Nation's Special Operations Forces community. I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting the 53,000 brave men and women who risk their lives in the most dangerous of missions to preserve our freedom. Vote aye on H. Res. 305. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FINANCIAL LITERACY MONTH 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1079, supporting the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month. I would first like to thank my distinguished colleague, Rub&#233;n Hinojosa of Texas, for introducing this important legislation. I believe basic financial literacy is imperative to ensure that individuals are capable of making financial choices, as well as managing money, credit, debt, and risk and becoming responsible workers, heads of households, investors, entrepreneurs, business leaders, and financially stable citizens. Understanding how each of these topics work together and affect each other is important for laying the groundwork for solid financial foundation for you and your family. 
   Personal financial management skills and lifelong habits begin to develop during childhood. In 2006, the JumpStart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy found that high school seniors knew less about principles of basic personal finance than did high school seniors 7 years earlier, and the average scores in both years were failing grades. Financial security is the cornerstone of prosperous communities, nurturing neighborhoods and strong families. However, many individuals and families are experiencing financial crisis because of inadequate savings, too much debt and poor planning for potential major life events. Today, a majority of consumers are experiencing some sort of financial difficulty causing a significant impact on their everyday lives. In fact, Americans carry more than $2 trillion in consumer debt and 30 percent of consumers report having no extra cash--making it impossible to escape the financial burden of living paycheck to paycheck. On average, U.S. households carry about $8,000 in credit card debt alone. The total U.S consumer credit card--revolving credit--debt was $937.5 billion in November 2007 which is absolutely unheard of. 
   Far too many Americans are insufficiently educated about their personal finances. The personal savings rate in the United States was zero percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2007, which puts it among the lowest since  the government began collecting the data in 1959. Shockingly, about half of adults--49 percent--say they are concerned they have not paid enough attention to managing their finances as they should have and 48 percent are concerned they don't know enough about financial planning; 4 out of 10 American workers are not saving for retirement. Public, community-based, and private sector organizations throughout the United States are working to increase financial literacy rates for Americans of all ages and walks of life through a range of outreach efforts, including media campaigns, Web sites, and one-on-one counseling for individuals. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge Members of Congress in a time of economic crises and brink of economic recession, to promote literacy in all aspects of finance. I support the goals and efforts established by the National Council on Economic Education, the JumpStart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy, its State affiliates, and its partner organizations for supporting the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month, including raising public awareness about financial education. I recognize the importance of managing personal finances, increasing personal savings and reducing indebtedness in the United States. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation that requests the President to issue a proclamation calling on the Federal Government, States, localities, schools, nonprofit organizations, businesses, other entities, and the people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate programs and activities with the goal of increasing financial literacy rates for individuals of all ages and walks of life.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PUBLIC SERVICE RECOGNITION WEEK -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1073, ``Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that public servants should be commended for their dedication and continued service to the Nation during Public Service Recognition Week, May 5 through 11, 2008,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Illinois, Representative Danny K. Davis. This important legislation illustrates a nation's commitment to recognize the work and fortitude of public service and the numerous citizens who are employed in that division. 
   Government workers have much to offer, as demonstrated by their expertise and innovative ideas, and serve as examples by passing on institutional knowledge to train the next generation of public servants. The Public Service Recognition Week encourages a new generation to consider a career in public service as an admirable profession. The week also serves to promote the significant contributions of public servants and to honor men and women at all levels of government. 
   During Public Service Recognition Week, Federal, State, county and local public employees take part in events such as job fairs, student activities, and agency exhibits that celebrate the broad variety of services performed by employees at all levels of government. Public Service Recognition Week, celebrated the first Monday through Sunday in May since 1985, is a time set aside each year to honor the diverse men and women who meet the needs of the Nation through work at the Federal, State and local government levels. 
   Throughout the Nation, public employees use Public Service Recognition Week to educate citizens about the many ways in which the Federal government serves the people and how Federal government services make life better for all of us. Public service employees are the educators who instruct us in complex academia, the policemen and firemen who fight crime and fires, the physicians who fight disease and promote better health, and the military who consistently defend our freedom and advance United States interests around the world. Public service employees encompass the fields of public transportation, waste management, social services, housing, electricity and more. These hard workers deserve the care and benefits they have earned through their honorable service. 
   The Nation benefits daily from the knowledge and skills of these highly trained individuals. The services that these workers provide are a necessity to modem life and is understood that its universal provision should be guaranteed. It is imperative that Congress recognizes the magnitude of the worker's job and its subsequent effects on environmental integrity, human health and overall quality of life in the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, we should continuously honor our government employees who have given their lives in service to this country. The most important reason for Public Service Recognition Week is the need to celebrate and recognize the valuable services that millions of public servants provide to the Nation. All too often, the contributions made by America's public employees to our democracy are forgotten--not only by our fellow citizens but even by those of us who serve. Public servants alert Congress and the public to government waste, fraud, abuse, and dangers to public health. The Federal, State, and local governments are responsive, innovative, and effective because of the exceptional work of public servants, and this involvement should not be disregarded. 
   Public service employees playa significant role in the greatness and affluence of the United States. I humbly commend public servants for their outstanding contributions to this great Nation during Public Service Recognition Week and throughout the year for their unyielding dedication and spirit for public service. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in-so-doing, giving our public service personnel the respect and recognition they deserve.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SAVING STARVING CHILDREN AROUND THE WORLD -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today as the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus to emphasis the crisis in the lack of food for those around the world. As we have seen the rising food costs, we in America are suffering, but the rest of the world is in a crisis. 
   I believe it is imperative as we move into our appropriations process that we emphasis the importance of utilizing the food stock here in the United States to provide service and support around the world, and I believe it is even more important to focus on the impact on children. 
   I will convene a briefing that will draw upon the insight of food advocates from around the Nation to focus on how we can prioritize children in developing nations being provided foodstuffs and receiving priority over adults, for a malnourished child dies, a malnourished child has disease. 
   We are in a crisis. It is time for us to act to save the children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my gratitude to all the men and women who have served and are currently serving in our Armed Forces. It is there courage and sacrifice that has paved for the rights and freedoms we enjoy. 
   Since September 2001, more than 1,700,000 members of the Armed Forces have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and nearly 611,000 have been deployed more than once. Many of our men and women in the armed forces have given the ultimate sacrifice to secure the freedoms of others. As of May 3, 2008 over 4,500 died and over 32,000 wounded while deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan). 
   The members of our Armed Forces and their families deserve all the medical, financial, education, and moral support that our Nation can provide. The resolution we considered today provides an opportunity for each of us, regardless of political views, religion, ethnicity, gender, or background to come together, and to recognize and honor our nation's heroes and those that support them and their families. 
   Though we may be divided by our positions on the war in Iraq, we stand together to support our veterans. Our nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the men and women who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We must be united in seeing that every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine is welcomed back with all the care and compassion this grateful nation can bestow. 
   All too many of our veterans are left without the help and support they need to transition from the horrors they bravely face on the front lines of battle to successful civilian life. According to the Veteran's Affairs Department, as of 2006, on any given night, 196,000 veterans of all ages were homeless. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ELDER ABUSE VICTIMS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5352, the ``Elder Abuse Victims Act of 2008''. This bills addresses health and safety issues for elders. This bill will protect the most vulnerable members of our society: the elderly. 
   I strongly support this bill and have authored an amendment that was accepted in Committee. I will discuss more about my amendment later. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Each year in the United States, between one-half million to five million elders are abused, neglected or exploited. Experts agree that most cases are never reported. Data collected on the problem is minimal, and there has been no comprehensive national approach to solving the many problems. In fact, the House has held only one hearing on elder abuse, over 16 years ago, in 1991. These problems likely will increase in the next 30 years, as 76 million baby boomers approach retirement. 
   H.R. 5352 establishes a national Elder Justice Coordinating Council and Advisory Board on Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation. Its purpose is to protect seniors in the United States from elder abuse by establishing specialized elder abuse prosecution and research programs and providing training for law enforcement and prosecutors. 
   My amendment, which was included at the Committee, allows a voluntary electronic monitoring pilot program to assist with the elderly when they are reported missing. Specifically, my amendment allows the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to issue grants to states and local government to carry out pilot programs to provide voluntary electronic monitoring services to elderly individuals to assist in the location of such individuals when they are reported missing. This amendment helps elderly people. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished chairman very much for yielding. I thank the Chair of the Democratic Caucus, Mr. Emanuel, for his amendment, upon which I decided not to offer my amendment on this issue. 
   Let me explain why I believe that the American people understand that no one is above the law: secret energy task force; secret wiretapping of Americans in violation of the FISA Act; a clandestine campaign to gut critical environmental protections; and new rules developed in secret governing the treatment of foreign terror suspects held by the United States. 
   The Vice President said he is part of the legislative branch. That means we can expel him. But in this instance, I believe we must say to the American people, he is not above the law. 
   This is a nonfunding of the Vice President's residence on the basis of his declaration that he is not part of the executive. I think this is an appropriate vehicle. I think we must say to the American people that not one of us, not one legislator, not one executive person, none of us is above the law. I wholeheartedly support this amendment.  
   I am proud to join as a cosponsor with my good friend, the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. EMANUEL, in sponsoring this amendment to H.R. 2829, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2008. I also rise to commend Chairman SERRANO and Ranking Member REGULA for their leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. I declined to offer the amendment that I filed so unity could be exhibited under one premise--no one is above the law--including the Vice President. 
   Among other things, this legislation provides funding for the Supreme Court and the Federal judiciary, the District of Columbia Government; and several independent agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission. The bill also funds the Executive Office of the President and other executive branch agencies, including the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service. 
   While most Americans do not know that this legislation also provides funding to operate the official residence of the Vice President, they do know that the Vice President is a member of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. This fact apparently is news to the current occupant of the office, Vice President CHENEY, who it has been reported resisted compliance with an executive order issued by President Bush in 2003 regarding the handling of classified information on the ground that the Vice President and his office is not a unit of the executive branch. 
   Mr. Chairman, if it were not so serious and not part of a long pattern of disturbing conduct, the Vice President's claim would be merely laughable and his weak grasp of the facts might even be charming. 
   But this Vice President has a long, disturbing, and disastrous record of asserting as fact things that he plainly knows to be untrue. 
   This is the same Vice President who said this about the war in Iraq: ``I think it will go relatively quickly ..... [in] weeks rather than months.'' In the run-up to the war, this same Vice President went on national television and confidently assured the nation that there was a connection between 911 and Saddam Hussein's Iraq. 
   Vice President CHENEY proclaimed in March 2002 that Saddam Hussein's Iraq possessed ``biological and chemical weapons,'' and confidently assured the nation less than a week before the launch of the Iraq War that, yes indeed, ``we believe [Iraq] has, in fact, reconstituted nuclear weapons.'' In each instance, the Vice President was proven wrong by the facts. 
   With his preposterous claim not to be a member of the executive branch, history is repeating. But as the saying goes: ``history repeats; the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce.'' 
   Indeed, perhaps the only person in the whole history of the United States who has been more wrong more often about more things of great consequence than the Vice President is the current President, who after all, is the nation's Chief Executive and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces.  
   Let us set the record straight and get our facts right. 
   The Vice President is a creature of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government as Article II, section 1 of the Constitution makes clear. The Vice President is not a ``member'' of the Legislative Branch 
   because membership in that branch is governed by the first clause in sections 2 and 3 of Article I. No member of Congress is elected to serve a four-year term as is the Vice President. And no member of Congress is provided an official residence as is the Vice President and the President. 
   A member of the Federal legislature can be involuntarily removed from office if his or her colleagues, by a 2/3 margin, vote to expel. The Vice President can be involuntarily removed from office after impeachment by the House and conviction in the Senate. 
   Mr. Chairman, the Vice President is extremely intelligent and no doubt knew his claim to be a member of the legislative branch was and is specious. The claim was simply a dodge to evade accountability and compliance with the requirements of the law. We have been down this road before: Secret Energy Task Force, secret wiretapping of Americans in violation of the FISA Act, clandestine campaign to gut critical environmental protections, new rules developed in secret governing the treatment of foreign terrorism suspects held by the United States. 
   Mr. Chairman, I am proud to have spent the majority of my time in Congress protecting and defending the separation of powers that is the hallmark of our democracy. I have consistently opposed this Administration's abuse of executive powers and prerogatives. That is why I introduced H.R. 264, the Congressional Lawmaking Authority Protection Act, challenging the president's misuse of bill signing statements. 
   Similarly, I introduced the Military Success in Iraq Act (MSIA or ``Messiah'') to deliver American troops from Iraq by terminating the authorization to use military force and requiring a new vote to continue offensive military operations in Iraq. A third example of my resistance to this Administration misuse and abuse of authority is H.R. 267, the Military Commissions Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007, which I introduced to repeal the restriction on the jurisdiction of courts, justices, and judges to hear or consider applications for writs of habeas corpus filed by or on behalf of certain aliens detained by the United States. 
   Mr. Chairman, no person is above the law and certainly not Vice President CHENEY. That is why I joined with Congressman EMANUEL to resist his latest attempt to avoid accountability and evade responsibility. 
   The intent of the amendment is straightforward: to limit the availability of funds for the Office of the Vice President only to Vice Presidents who are members of the executive branch of the Federal Government and subject to the executive authority of the President of the United States. The appropriated funds are not available to members of the legislative branch. A person is a member of the legislative branch only if they are so qualified by virtue of compliance with Article I, section 2, clause 1 or Article I, section 3, clause 1. Acting as President over the Senate is not sufficient to make one a ``member'' of the Senate, and thus a member of the legislative branch. 
   Although our amendment will save the taxpayers $4.752 million from being used by the Vice President, it does not restrict funding for the Vice President's secret service protection and does not affect the funds CHENEY would receive as President of the Senate. The Senate version of the FY08 Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill provides the President of the Senate with $2.3 million. 
   Mr. Chairman, if the Vice President does not think he is a member of the executive branch there is no reason he should impose upon the taxpayers to fund the perquisites of his office. Democrats were entrusted by the voters with the majority to restore fiscal responsibility, oversight, and accountability to government. The new majority is committed to ensuring that government operates in an open, transparent, accountable and fair manner. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of the amendment. Let me again thank Chairman SERRANO and Ranking Member REGULA for their courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in putting together this excellent legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (A CONSTITUTION THAT ALWAYS LIVES AND NEVER DIES -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I applaud your leadership, and I am delighted to have the opportunity to address the day's and the week's events, because many times, as we discuss these matters on the floor of the House, many of our constituents and Americans sometimes wonder the order of our words. 
   This afternoon we did an important and major leap towards securing this Nation and providing it with the protection of civil liberties. Although in the course of the discussion there may have been accusations, the FISA bill, the amendments to the Senate bill, was the right approach and the right direction to take. 
   You know, we had an opportunity last evening for a secret session, and I was on the floor questioning the validity of such, because I always believe what we do in America should be in the eyes of America, although we recognize in this time of terrorism there is a necessity for classified documents or top secret documents, but there is never a time to close the door on America's knowledge. 
   I would not want this debate that many of you may have heard to be characterized as one of a coverup that we are doing something that does not provide the absolute safety and wise direction that America should take. I wanted to simply add to my statements that will be put into the Record the idea that this bill provides the opportunity to secure foreign-to-foreign surveillance, but it also avoids the targeting of Americans without the intervention of the court so that if you were, by chance, talking to a relative in a foreign land that might, without your knowledge, be targeted or through some way, might be connected, that would draw surveillance, you can be assured that as an American, unlike the occurrence with Martin Luther King and some Americans during the Vietnam War, that you have the intervention of a court established first in 1978 under President Carter. 
   We have streamlined that. The language called ``reverse targeting'' was an amendment that I submitted into the Judiciary Committee that would avoid targeting an American without the intervention of a court, not a court for 6 days or 6 weeks, but an automatic intervention that is given to you within hours. 
   We have a system where the Attorney General now must, along with the Director of Intelligence, put in guidelines to be able to oversee what happens when an American is targeted. I  can ask any American whether or not that is a reasonable approach. If they study the question, I think they would understand that no intelligence and no opportunity to secure or to capture a terrorist has been intervened with while we have been having these debates, because we had the security of the bill that has been in place, the Protect America Act, for over a year. 
   Authorities still exist, even through the recess that we will take, to provide the intelligence community with any tools that they will need. But it is a sad state of affairs in America if we allow the terrorists to terrorize us and to, in essence, tear up the Constitution. 
   That is what we did today. We protected the Constitution, and we ensured that those who are concerned, the telecommunications company, many of them, we know their names, are, in fact, protected. 
   One, we protect them going forward. Two, we give them a cure for the litigation that is going on today, because we don't prohibit the review of top secret documents in camera. The cases that are going on now, those telecommunications companies will be protected because they will have the ability to review the evidence so that they can convince the court that they were operating within the law. 
   Going forward, we will get a certified letter from the Attorney General or the Director of Intelligence to say we need information from you. We will tell them that they are not breaking the law. We will also tell them that they will be in compliance with all laws. Out of that they will get absolute immunity to provide our Central Intelligence Agency and others the necessary information that we would have. 
   I think it is important that debate, sometimes looking as if they are accusatory, and one side looking like they have the upper hand, suggesting that we are in crisis, leaving in a recess, that America is unprotected, needs to be clarified. America will be protected. We do have authority in place that could provide the Central Intelligence or other national intelligence agencies any information that they need. 
   God knows after 9/11 all of us are committed to the war on terror, but we are all recognizing that a Constitution survives no matter what condition America is in. The Constitution survived the Civil War. It survived World War I. It survived World War II, the Vietnam War. It survived the Korean War, the Gulf War and now the Iraq war. 
   I would ask America, can we not secure ourselves and keep the civil liberties of Americans and the Constitution intact? Today, in voting for this bill, I proudly supported both concepts. I am grateful to be an American, grateful that we have a Constitution that always lives and never dies. 
   God bless the soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan and on the front lines. I look forward to visiting with those soldiers in the next couple of days in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I imagine that Admiral McConnell is watching and listening, and so allow me this morning to thank all of the patriots that are stationed around the world that are the front lines of the national security and defense and intelligence community of this Nation. To the American people, let me say on your behalf, we thank them, for they are working every day, and they are working diligently, and they are being successful. 
   This rule today supporting the underlying bill should be passed, because Admiral McConnell is aware that every single tool that he has asked for, foreign-to-foreign and otherwise in terms of surveillance, is in this bill. 
   Interestingly enough, if you will talk to members of the law enforcement community and those who are dealing with terrorists, they will tell you that they are intercepting terrorists. They are finding terrorists every single day. I personally spoke to law enforcement who noted in one region of the country that they have intercepted three terrorists. So what we are doing today is providing the codified document to secure your civil liberties, to suggest that if the focus of your surveillance is actually an American, they have to have a court intervention, a quick court intervention. 
   As it relates to our telecom companies, is anyone suggesting that they are not patriots? Is anyone suggesting that they will not comply with a request by the national security community? 
   They will, because in this bill it indicates to them that if they get a letter that suggests that we need their help, that they are not breaking the law, that all of the laws have been in compliance certified by the AG, they get absolute immunity. 
   So going forward, there will be no question. If that happened in the past, they have absolute immunity. There will be no gaping hole, and the idea of avoiding retroactive immunity is a question to America. It is protecting your civil liberties. Yes, we have been secure, or we have avoided a tragedy since 9/11. It is because we have given them the tools, and now we give them better tools. 
   It is important to pass this legislation, because it advances the security of America. But what it says to the world is that we are not terrorized by the terrorists. We believe in security, but we believe in the civil liberties of all Americans. 
   The Constitution still stands.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the H. Res. 1041, Providing for Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3773, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Amendments Act. This Rule will allow us to examine the Senate Amendment and to consider the many concerns associated with this act. 
   We have worked as a body to resolve our issues with FISA and with those of our Senate colleagues without eviscerating the fundamental rights embodied in the Bill of Rights. Leadership has worked tirelessly to not simply reconcile the Senate language with the RESTORE Act (H.R. 3773), which we passed in the House on November 15, 2007, but leadership has also worked tirelessly to go beyond the RESTORE Act. This current FISA Reform legislation has been borne out of this tireless struggle. Let me detail some of the ways that the FISA Reform Act balances security and liberty: adopting provisions from the Senate bill that will for the first time provide statutory protections for U.S. persons overseas, that ensures surveillance of their communications are conducted through the courts; and providing a mechanism for telecommunications carriers to prove their case that they did not engage in any wrongdoing and to guarantee due process with a fair hearing in court. 
   Like the RESTORE Act, the FISA reform legislation provides for collection against terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda, while providing prior court approval of acquisition and an on-going process of review and oversight in order to protect Americans' privacy. 
   The FISA Reform Act creates a bipartisan commission on Warrantless Electronic Surveillance Activities with strong investigatory powers in order to preserve the rule of law in pending and future lawsuits. This revised version of the bill reiterates FISA's exclusive control for conducting foreign intelligence surveillance, unless a specific statutory authorization for surveillance is enacted. This is an area where the House version has differed from the Senate. 
   Perhaps the most important distinction between the House version of the bill and the Senate's version is that the Court must approve surveillance procedures prior to the start of surveillance. Under the Senate bill, the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney  General authorize surveillance and submit procedures to the FISA Court 5 days after surveillance begins. Under the Senate bill, the FISA Court has no firm deadline for approving the procedures. The Senate bill does not go far enough in protecting the individual rights of Americans. 
   The FISA Reform Act requires submission to Congress and the FISA Court of ``reverse targeting'' guidelines that are to be promulgated by the NSA. Specifically, these guidelines will determine whether the ``significant purpose'' of the surveillance is to acquire communications of a specific U.S. person. In this regard, the House bill gives more teeth to the provisions in the Senate bill, which only has general prohibitions against reverse targeting and does not require the promulgation of agency guidelines addressing reverse targeting. 
   Both the FISA Reform Act and the Senate bill, provide for prospective liability protection for telecommunications companies that assist with lawful surveillance activities. However, the FISA Reform Act goes further by ensuring that telecommunication companies complying with the Protect America Act (PAA) have liability protection for lawful surveillance that occurred after the expiration of the PAA. 
   Another major difference between the bills is that the FISA Reform Act does not provide for any retroactive immunity. Instead, the FISA Reform Act provides for a process to allow district courts to review classified evidence in camera and ex parte (in front of the judge without the presence of the plaintiff). This allows the telecommunications companies to have their day in court and to assert defenses that already exist under FISA and other statutes. This process simply creates a pathway for companies to assert such defenses. 
   This process, which allows the Court to review information and the companies to prove their case, prevents the Executive Branch from blocking the companies from asserting their defenses under the doctrine of ``state secrets'' privilege. The FISA Reform Act permits the telecommunication companies an opportunity to defend themselves but does not create any new defenses or immunity and it does not excuse any conduct that may have been unlawful. Under the House bill, telecommunication companies can prove their innocence in court without the protection of the States immunity privilege. If these companies cannot prove that their actions were proper then they will be held accountable. 
   The Senate bill grants full immunity to any telecommunication company where the Attorney General certified that assistance was requested as part of the President's warrantless surveillance program. This blanket immunity goes to far, and do not support full immunity. 
   I believe the FISA Reform Act is better because it provides the telecommunications companies with due process and an opportunity to prove their guilt or innocence. I cannot support a case for blanket immunity and the FISA Reform Act does not allow it. 
   Lastly, the FISA Reform Act provides a forward looking provision that establishes a bipartisan National Commission, appointed by Congress. The Commission will investigate and report to Congress and the public about the Administration's warrantless surveillance activities. 
   Homeland security is not a Democratic or a Republican issue, it is not a House or Senate issue; it is an issue for all Americans--all of us need to be secure in our homes, secure in our thoughts, and secure in our communications. 
   I find it disturbing that our Republican colleagues will not join us to ensure that Americans are safe here and abroad. Disturbing that they do not recognize that we must protect the civil liberties of this Nation just as we protect American lives. 
   Mr. Speaker, in August of last year, I strongly opposed S. 1927, the so-called ``Protect America Act'' (PAA), when it came to a vote on the House floor. Had the Bush administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the two preceding years, we would not have been in the position of debating legislation that had such a profoundly negative impact on the national security and on American values and civil liberties in the crush of exigent circumstances. As that regrettable episode clearly showed, it is true as the saying goes that haste makes waste. 
   The PAA was stampeded through the Congress in the midnight hour of the last day before the long August recess on the dubious claim that it was necessary to fill a gap in the Nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell. In reality, it would have circumvented the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution and represented an unwarranted transfer of power from the courts to the Executive Branch and a Justice Department led at that time by an Attorney General whose reputation for candor and integrity was, to put it charitably, subject to considerable doubt. 
   Under the House bill, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) is indispensable and is accorded a meaningful role in ensuring compliance with the law. The bill ensures that the FISC is empowered to act as an Article III court should act, which means the court shall operate neither as a rubber-stamp nor a bottleneck. Rather, the function of the court is to validate the lawful exercise of executive power on the 
   one hand, and to act as the guardian of individual rights and liberties on the other. 
   Moreover, Mr. Speaker, it is important to point out that the loudest demands for blanket immunity did not come from the telecommunications companies but from the administration, which raises the interesting question of whether the administration's real motivation is to shield from public disclosure the ways and means by which government officials may have ``persuaded'' telecommunications companies to assist in its warrantless surveillance programs. 
   My amendment, which was added during the markup last year, made a constructive contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   ``Reverse targeting'' is a concept well known to members of the Judiciary Committee but not so well understood by those less steeped in the minutiae of electronic surveillance; it is the practice where the Government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with the FISA is that the temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting is often difficult to resist in the absence of strong safeguards to prevent it. 
   My amendment, accepted in the House Judiciary mark up, reduced any temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieved this objective by requiring the administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' 
   The language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that has long been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by the agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson-Lee Amendment provided a clearer, more objective, criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
   Mr. Speaker, nothing in the Act or the amendments to the Act should require the Government to obtain a FISA order for every overseas target on the off chance that they might pick up a call into or from the United States. Rather, what should be required, is a FISA order only where there is a particular, known person in the United States at the other end of the foreign target's calls in whom the Government has a significant interest such that a significant purpose of the surveillance has become to acquire that person's communications. 
   The acquisition of communications will happen over time and the Government will have the time to get an order while continuing its surveillance. It is the national security interest to require the Government to obtain an order at that point, so that it can lawfully acquire all of the target person's communications rather than continuing to listen to only some of them. 
   We are living in a time of economic crisis and acts of unfettered terrorism. Former President Franklin Delano Roosevelt said that ``our national determination to keep free of foreign wars and foreign entanglements cannot prevent us from feeling deep concern when ideals and principles that we have cherished are challenged.'' 
   Like former President Roosevelt, we must secure our Nation from foreign entanglements but at the same time we must continue to champion the fundamental freedoms of all Americans regardless of whether the surveillance occurs in the United States or abroad. 
   It is very important to me; and it should be very important to Members of this body that we require what should be required in all cases--a warrant any time there is surveillance of a United States citizen. 
   In short, the Senate amendment to the House amendment makes a good bill even better. For this reason alone, civil libertarians should enthusiastically embrace the amended H.R. 3773. 
   The Bush administration would like the American people to believe that Democrats do not want to protect America. My Republican colleagues echo this false claim in both the chambers of Congress by questioning our patriotism. But I remind them that tyrannical behavior often questions the motivations of those seeking to protect civil liberties.  
   Let us not fall prey to false proclamations of an administration that takes our Bill of Rights and lays it to the side when they feel like it. Security must go hand-in-hand with liberty. Oppression of some for the alleged security of others is not the example this great Nation should set. 
   As I wrote in the Politico, ``the best way to win the war on terror is to remain true to our democratic traditions. If it retains its democratic character, no nation and no loose confederation of international villains will defeat the United States in the pursuit of its vital interests.'' 
   Thus, the way forward to victory in the war on terror is for the United States to redouble its commitment to the Bill of Rights and the democratic values which every American will risk his or her life to defend. It is only by preserving our attachment to these cherished values that America will remain forever the home of the free, the land of the brave, and the country we love. 
   Mr. Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing, and I am far from persuaded that it needs to be jettisoned. 
   I continue to insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a basket warrant without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. 
   In all candor, Mr. Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still not enough on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this administration, to indicate that they require a blank check from Congress. 
   The Bush administration did not comply with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely upon incomplete information from the Bush administration or upon erroneous revelations leaked through the media. Instead Congress must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within the United States and abroad. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Having heard all of the answers to all of the questions that have been raised by the opposition, knowing that full justice, civil liberties and the protection is in this bill, I rise in support of the underlying bill.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3773, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). This body has worked diligently with our colleagues in the Senate to ensure that the civil liberties of American citizens are appropriately addressed. 
   We have worked to not simply reconcile the Senate language with the RESTORE Act (H.R. 3773) which we passed in the House on November 15, 2007, but to go beyond the RESTORE Act as part of FISA Reform legislation by: Adopting provisions from the Senate bill that will for the first time provide statutory protections for U.S. persons overseas, that ensures surveillance of their communications are conducted through the courts; and Providing a mechanism for telecommunications carriers to prove their case that they did not engage in any wrongdoing and to guarantee due process with a fair hearing in court. 
   Like the RESTORE Act, the FISA reform legislation provides for collection against terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda, while providing prior court approval of acquisition and an on-going process of review and oversight in order to protect Americans' privacy. 
   The revised House bill creates a bipartisan commission on Warrantless Electronic Surveillance Activities with strong investigatory powers in order to preserve the rule of law in pending and future lawsuits. This revised version of the bill continues to reiterate FISA's exclusive control for conducting foreign intelligence surveillance, and requires explicit statutory authorization for any means outside of FISA. This is an area where the House version has differed from the Senate. 
   Homeland security is not a Democratic or a Republican issue, it is not a House or Senate issue; it is an issue for all Americans--all of us need to be secure in our homes, secure in our thoughts, and secure in our communications. 
   I find it disturbing that our Republican colleagues will not join us to ensure that Americans are safe here and abroad. Disturbing that they do not recognize that we must protect the civil liberties of this nation just as we protect American lives. 
   Mr. Speaker, in August of this year, I strongly opposed S. 1927, the so-called ``Protect America Act'' (PAA) when it came to a vote on the House floor. Had the Bush Administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the two preceding years, we would not have been in the position of debating legislation that had such a profoundly negative impact on the national security and on American values and civil liberties in the crush of exigent circumstances. As that regrettable episode clearly showed, it is true as the saying goes that haste makes waste. 
   The PAA was stampeded through the Congress in the midnight hour of the last day before the long August recess on the dubious claim that it was necessary to fill a gap in the nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell. In reality it would have eviscerated the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution and represented an unwarranted transfer of power from the courts to the Executive Branch and a Justice Department led at 
   that time by an Attorney General whose reputation for candor and integrity was, to put it charitably, subject to considerable doubt. 
   Under the House bill, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, FISC is indispensable and is accorded a meaningful role in ensuring compliance with the law. The bill ensures that the FISC is empowered to act as an Article III court should act, which means the court shall operate neither as a rubber-stamp nor a bottleneck. Rather, the function of the court is to validate the lawful exercise of executive power on the one hand, and to act as the guardian of individual rights and liberties on the other.  
   Moreover, Mr. Speaker, it is important to point out that the loudest demands for blanket immunity did not come from the telecommunications companies but from the administration, which raises the interesting question of whether the administration's real motivation is to shield from public disclosure the ways and means by which government officials may have ``persuaded'' telecommunications companies to assist in its warrantless surveillance programs. I call my colleagues' attention to an article published in the Washington Post in which it is reported that Joseph Nacchio, the former CEO of Qwest, alleges that his company was denied NSA contracts after he declined in a February 27, 2001 meeting at Fort Meade with National Security Agency, NSA, representatives to give the NSA customer calling records. 
   To give a detailed illustration of just how superior the RESTORE Act is to the ill-considered and hastily enacted Protect America Act, I wish to take a few moments to discuss an important improvement in the bill that was adopted in the full Judiciary Committee markup. 
   My amendment, which was added during the markup, made a constructive contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   ``Reverse targeting,'' a concept well known to members of this Committee but not so well understood by those less steeped in the arcana of electronic surveillance, is the practice where the Government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with the PAA is that the understandable temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting may be difficult to resist in the absence of strong safeguards in the PAA to prevent it. 
   My amendment reduces even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieves this objective by requiring the administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' The current language in the bill provides that a warrant be obtained only when the Government ``seeks to conduct electronic surveillance'' of a person reasonably believed to be located in the United States. 
   It was far from clear how the operative language ``seeks to'' is to be interpreted. In contrast, the language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that has long been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by the agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson Lee Amendment provides a clearer, more objective, criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
   Mr. Speaker, nothing in the Act or the amendments to the Act should require the Government to obtain a FISA order for every overseas target on the off chance that they might pick up a call into or from the United States. Rather, what should be required, is a FISA order only where there is a particular, known person in the United States at the 
   other end of the foreign target's calls in whom the Government has a significant interest such that a significant purpose of the surveillance has become to acquire that person's communications. 
   This will usually happen over time and the Government will have the time to get an order while continuing its surveillance. It is the national security interest to require it to obtain an order at that point, so that it can lawfully acquire all of the target person's communications rather than continuing to listen to only some of them. 
   It is very important to me, and it should be very important to Members of this body that we require what should be required in all cases--a warrant anytime there is surveillance of a United States citizen. 
   In short, the Senate amendment to the House version makes a good bill even better. For this reason alone, civil libertarians should enthusiastically embrace H.R. 3773. 
   Nearly two centuries ago, Alexis de Tocqueville, who remains the most astute student of American democracy, observed that the reason democracies invariably prevail in any martial conflict is because democracy is the governmental form that best rewards and encourages those traits that are indispensable to martial success: initiative, innovation, resourcefulness, and courage. 
   As I wrote in the Politico, ``the best way to win the war on terror is to remain true to our democratic traditions. If it retains its democratic character, no nation and no loose confederation of international villains will defeat the United States in the pursuit of its vital interests.'' 
   Thus, the way forward to victory in the war on terror is for the United States country to redouble its commitment to the Bill of Rights and the democratic values which every American will risk his or her life to defend. It is only by preserving our attachment to these cherished values that America will remain forever the home of the free, the land of the brave, and the country we love. 
   Mr. Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes on a sound legal footing, and I am far from persuaded that it needs to be jettisoned. 
   However, I know that FISA as it is run currently attempts to circumvent the Bill of Rights and the civil liberties of the American people. I continue to insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a ``basket warrant'' without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. 
   In all candor, Mr. Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still not enough on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this administration, to indicate that they require a blank check from Congress. 
   The Bush administration did not comply with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important, (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people. 
   Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in a vote of support for the FISA Amendments Act, H.R. 3773, as it seeks to balance our Nation's securities and our civil liberties.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on the other hand unlike the minority, I rise to champion the CHAMP Act. Let me thank Chairman Stark, let me thank Mr. Dingell, and Mr. Rangel for providing the threesome who understood that our children are in need! 
   Mr. Speaker, it is a crisis. The CHIPS is getting ready to expire. I am very glad that we did something monumental in 1997 by implementing a program to help America's children--  CHIP. Five million children will be added. It will make it a total of 11 million children. Also seniors will have their choice of hospitals an doctors and they will be able to get all of their benefits under Medicare. 
   We will follow the current immigration law so the argument regarding undocumented immigrants is unfounded. But a sick person is a sick person, a sick baby is a sick baby, and Texas needs dollars, and America needs this health coverage. 
   At the same time, I look forward to working with the committee so that our doctor-owned hospitals in rural and underserved areas will be able to get a waiver so that they can continue to serve in those areas. But I am proud that we are providing more benefits, not fewer benefits, and we are providing more dollars for the State of Texas' most neediest residents--children and seniors--they need good health care now. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the CHAMP Act.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act). I would like to thank my colleague Mr. DINGELL for introducing this legislation, and for his leadership, together with that of Mr. RANGEL, in shepherding this legislation through both the Energy and Commerce and the Ways and Means Committees. 
   This important legislation commits $50 billion to reauthorize and improve the State Children's Health Insurance Program, SCHIP, and it also makes critical investments in Medicare to protect the health care available to our Nation's senior citizens. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this excellent bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, SCHIP was created in 1997, with broad bipartisan support, to address the critical issue of the large numbers of children in our country without access to health care. It serves the children of working families who earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but who either are not able to afford health insurance or whose parents hold jobs without health care benefits. 
   Children without health insurance often forgo crucial preventative treatment. They cannot go to the doctor for annual checkups or to receive treatment for relatively minor illnesses, allowing easily treatable ailments to become serious medical emergencies. They must instead rely on costly emergency care. This has serious health implications for these children, and it creates additional financial burdens on their families, communities, and the entire Nation. 
   This year alone, 6 million children are receiving health care as a result of SCHIP. However, funding for this visionary program expires September 30. Congress must act now to ensure that these millions of children can continue to receive quality, affordable health insurance. President Bush has employed rhetoric in support of this program while on the campaign trail, stating in 2004 that ``In a new term, we will lead an aggressive effort to enroll millions of poor children who are eligible but not signed up for government health insurance programs.'' Unfortunately, however, in practice both the Administration and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in Congress have proposed significant cuts in the program. If these are approved, millions of children will lose health coverage. 
   As chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I can think of few goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to health coverage. It costs us less than $3.50 a day to cover a child through SCHIP. For this small sum, we can ensure that a 
   child from a working family can receive crucial preventative care, allowing them to be more successful in school and in life. Without this program, millions of children will lose health coverage, further straining our already tenuous healthcare safety net. 
   Additionally, through this legislation, we have an opportunity to make health care even more available to America's children. The majority of uninsured children are currently eligible for coverage, either through SCHIP or through Medicaid. We must demonstrate our commitment to identifying and enrolling these children, through both increased funding and a campaign of concerted outreach. This legislation provides States with the tools and incentives they need to reach these unenrolled children without expanding the program to make more children eligible. 
   In my home State of Texas, as of June 2006, SCHIP was benefiting 293,000 children. This is a decline of over 33,000 children from the previous year. We must continue to work to ensure that all eligible children can participate in this important program. To this end, Texas Governor Rick Perry signed legislation in June to, among other things, create a community outreach campaign for SCHIP. 
   In addition to reauthorizing and improving the SCHIP program, this legislation also protects and improves Medicare. Due to a broken payment formula, access to medical services for senior citizens and people with disabilities is currently in jeopardy. Physicians who provide healthcare to Medicare beneficiaries face a 10 percent cut in their reimbursement rates next year, with the prospect of further reductions in years to come looming on the horizon. The budget proposed by the Bush administration does not help these doctors, or the patients that they serve. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that senior citizens and individuals with disabilities deserve access to quality and affordable healthcare. Currently, there are 35 million seniors without private health plans, and, at current rates, the Medicare Trust Fund will be depleted early because of excess payments to HMOs. This legislation reverses Republican efforts to privatize Medicare, and it ensures that seniors will have access to the doctor of their choice. 
   This is extremely important legislation providing for the health coverage of 11 million low-income children, as well as protecting the health services available to senior citizens and persons with disabilities. I strongly support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3162, which represents the agreement between the House and Senate on the ``Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007,'' which the House passed in May 2007. With the adoption of this legislation, we begin to make good on our pledge to ``drain the swamp'' and end the ``culture of corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress. 
   It is critically important that we adopt the reforms contained in H.R. 3162 because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq for Administration cronies. 
   The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, several congressional staff members and a former congressman pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--accepting all-expense-paid trips to play golf in Scotland and accepting meals, sports and concert tickets, while providing legislative favors for Abramoff's clients. 
   But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into signed conference reports in the dead of night. 
   The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exit polls indicated that 74 percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very important issue in their choice at the polls. 
   Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is why, as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate given the new majority by the voters, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics reform package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, Federal lobbying is a multi-billion dollar industry, and spending to influence members of Congress and executive branch officials has increased greatly in the last decade. While the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995, LDA, is one of the main laws to promote transparency and accountability in the federal lobbying industry and represents the most comprehensive overhaul of the laws regulating lobbying practices in 50 years prior to 1995, it falls far short of a complete solution, as even recognized by its staunchest supporters, during congressional hearings on the issue. 
   The need for further reform was highlighted by a major study of the federal lobbying industry published in April 2006 by the Center 
   for Public Integrity, which found that since 1998, lobbyists have spent nearly $13 billion to influence members of Congress and other federal officials on legislation and regulations. The same study found that in 2003 alone, lobbyists spent $2.4 billion, with expenditures for 2004 estimated to grow to at least $3 billion. This is roughly twice as much as the already vast amount that was spent on federal political campaigns in the same time period. 
   The LDA contains a number of measures to help prevent inappropriate influence in the lobbying arena and promote sunshine on lobbying activities. However, according to the Center's study, compliance with these requirements has been less than exemplary. 
   For example, the report found: during the last six years, 49 out of the top 50 lobbying firms have failed to file one or more of the required forms; nearly 14,000 documents that should have been filed are missing; almost 300 individuals, companies, or associates have lobbied without being registered; more than 2,000 initial registrations were filed after the legal deadline; and in more than 2,000 instances, lobbyists never filed the required termination documents at all. 
   Under the LDA, the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House must notify in writing any lobbyist or lobbying firm of noncompliance with registration and reporting requirements, and they must also notify the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia of the noncompliance if the lobbyist or lobbying firm fails to respond within 60 days of its notification. It appears that until very recently, however, these cases of noncompliance were not being referred to the Department of Justice for enforcement. It is also clear that the infractions that are actually being investigated by the Secretary or the Clerk do not coincide with the extent of noncompliance, and it is entirely unknown whether enforcement actions are being effectively pursued by the Department of Justice. Clearly, further reform is needed. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and her team for the excellent work in preparing this lobbying reform package. The reforms contained in the package are tough but not nearly too tough for persons elected to represent the interests of the 600,000 constituents in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar bipartisan lobbying and government reform proposals were debated and passed by the House and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to reconcile the two versions. 
   Mr Speaker, I support H.R. 3162 because it closes the ``Revolving Door,'' requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities, provides tougher enforcement of lobbying restrictions, and requires increased disclosure. 
   H.R. 3162 closes the ``Revolving Door'' by retaining the current one-year ban on lobbying by former members and senior staff and requires them to notify the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct within three days of  engaging in any negotiations or reaching any agreements regarding future employment or salary. The members' notification will be publicly disclosed. 
   The bill also requires members and senior staff to recuse themselves during negotiations regarding future employment from any matter in which there is a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation also ends the ``K Street Project,'' made notorious during the 12 years of Republican control of Congress. Members and senior staff are prohibited from influencing employment decisions or practices of private entities for partisan 
   political gain. Violators of this provision will be fined or imprisoned for a term of up to 15 years. 
   Second, H.R. 3162 requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities by strengthening lobbying disclosure requirements. It does this by mandating quarterly, rather than semiannual, disclosure of lobbying reports. It covers more lobbyists by reducing the contribution thresholds from $5,000 to $2,500 in income from lobbying activities and from $20,000 to $10,000 in total lobbying expenses. It also reduces the contribution threshold of any organization other than client that contributes to lobbying activities to $5000, $10,000 under current law. 
   Third, the legislation increases disclosure of lobbyists' contributions to lawmakers and entities controlled by lawmakers, including contributions to members' charities, to pay the cost of events or entities honoring members, contributions intended to pay the cost of a meeting or a retreat, and contributions disclosed under FECA relating to reports by conduits. 
   Fourth, the bill requires the House Clerk to provide public Internet access to lobbying reports within 48 hours of electronic filing and requires that the lobbyist/employing firm provide a certification or disclosure report attesting that it did not violate House/Senate gift ban rules. And it makes it a violation of the LDA for a lobbyist to provide a gift or travel to a member/officer or employee of Congress with knowledge that the gift or travel is in violation of House/Senate rules. 
   Transparency is increased by the requirements in the bill that lobbyists to disclose past Executive and Congressional employment and that lobbying reports be filed electronically and maintained in a searchable, downloadable database. For good reason, the bill also requires disclosure of lobbying activities by certain coalitions but expressly exempts 501(c) and 527 organizations. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3162 increases civil penalties for violation of the Lobby Disclosure Act from $50,000 to $200,000 and adds a criminal penalty of up to 5 years for knowing and corrupt failure to comply. Finally, the bill requires members to prohibit their staff from having any official contact with the member's spouse who is a registered lobbyist or is employed or retained by such an individual and establishes a public database of member Travel and Personal Financial Disclosure Forms. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that at the beginning of this new 110th Congress, the Members of this House, along with all of the American people, paid fitting tribute to the late President Gerald R. ``Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this House, who did so much to heal our Nation in the aftermath of Watergate. Upon assuming the Presidency, President Ford assured the Nation: ``My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.'' By his words and deeds, President Ford helped turn the country back on the right track. He will be forever remembered for his integrity, good character, and commitment to the national interest. 
   This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most responsive, most transparent Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the needs of the American people before those of the lobbyists and special interests. To do that, we can start by adopting by H.R. 3162. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I move to strike the requisite number of words. 
   I want, first of all, to start with a loud applause for the Financial Services Committee. As I said in my office, to see this story unfold, something that has never happened in this Congress during the tenure that I have had, is a real legislative initiative that addresses the question of the deficit in housing in America. 
   This bill, for the first time, will provide a stable and well-regulated mortgage market. And my good friend from Texas, the spirit that he has offered this amendment, I assume that he is both serious, and, of course, concerned. But coming from Texas as well, I don't know how many Texans my good friend speaks for because this particular Affordable Housing Fund does start off the first year in funding the devastation of Louisiana and Mississippi, but what it continues to do is provide a $500, $600 million affordable Housing Trust Fund that the people of Texas will benefit from.     
   Maybe my good friend has not been to East Texas and seen the devastation of Hurricane Rita. Those people, just a few miles down from Houston, are still living without housing. 
   This is a very measured legislative initiative, for the fund prohibits any hanky-panky. It has nothing to do with administrative costs, political activities, advocacy, lobbying, counseling, travel expense, preparation or advice on tax returns. It is all about housing. It even limits administrative costs. And it is sunsetted after 5 years. 
   We in Houston are still suffering from Storm Allison, and an affordable housing plan will allow housing to be restored to those who are unable to find housing. In fact, what this particular legislation will do is to answer the question why 71 percent of extremely low income renters pay more than half of their income for housing and 64 percent of homeowners who are low income pay more than half. There is a housing crisis. Right now there is an epidemic of foreclosures because of a broken mortgage system that has preyed upon eager Americans to be able to buy a home. 
   The capping of this strategic and innovative formula for affordable housing will only dumb-down the opportunities for people to gain housing. I can assure you that the throngs of Americans are begging for the passage of this legislation tonight, because all an American wants to do when you hear them talk about we all are created equal with certain inalienable rights, it is all about the quality of life, the ability to send a child to school for a good education, a good home and good healthcare. 
   My friend talks about money, $520 million, it may go up a bit, for one year. We are spending $1 billion a day almost in Iraq and certainly we have a difference of opinion on that use of money. But the real question is, what can we do to fix the broken predatory lending system, the broken mortgage system, the lack of housing for people who want housing? We can pass H.R. 1427. 
   It is interesting that I am looking at a letter to our colleagues, and it says signed by BARNEY FRANK, MEL WATT, RICHARD BAKER and GARY MILLER. To me, that seems like a bipartisan commitment to this reform. 
   So I am confused by the gentleman's amendment to cap and to dumb down this affordable housing trust fund that would in fact provide money for Texas. Those of us in Houston in districts like mine and districts that are surrounding all know of the many hard-working survivors who are in our community trying to make it from Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. We have ceased calling anyone a deadbeat or someone who doesn't want to work or doesn't want housing. I would venture to say if you walked along any block, inner-city block, you would find people saying give me an opportunity. 
   Chairman Frank, all I see in this bill is an opportunity; a regulated, precise opportunity for affordable housing, and I ask my colleagues to defeat the Neugebauer amendment and vote for H.R. 1427. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Neugebauer). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the Rules Committee for very diligent and thorough review. About 14 Members of Congress were able to present their case before the Rules Committee. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, to reaffirm that this is about hate. There are already well-recognized doctrines and no disagreement that no matter who you are as an adult, sex with children is wrong. Many of us have enthusiastically supported Federal laws that already oppose that kind of abuse and violation. 
   It is important to note that not only in the Rules Committee did Members have the opportunity to make the case as to the relevance of their amendments to this bill, but we sat for hours and hours in the Judiciary Committee going over amendment after amendment, amendments that were not about hate. They were, of course, certainly elements that one could raise, but they were protected in other aspects of the law. This bill pertains specifically to historical documented cases that, because of your disability or because of your race, because of your gender, because of your gender identity you have been abused. 
   You have not seen the depth of degradation unless you've listened to people who have come to you in tears, who cannot, for any reason, tell you why they are who they are, but they say they are who they are, sort of a mix of words. And the pain of living as a human being who is rejected every day of their life, fearful that they may encounter brutality, that is the simplicity of this bill. That is why 31 Attorney Generals currently serving have said we need this. That is why they have asked the Federal Government simply to help us calm the communities, prosecute the cases, make sure that those who have a historical investment in themselves, who they are, can be protected; that a young Hispanic teenager does not have to be brutalized by skinheads. It is emotional, it is tearful, but it is true. 
   And so when my colleagues talk about this rule, let me assure you that hours upon hours of attention to amendments have already been given, debated, presented. But what we have tried to do is to answer the pain, answer the violence, and yes, answer the call of 31 attorneys of the United States of America. 
   Pass this rule so that we can debate the question of preventing hate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, with great emotion, I come to this floor. 
   Congressman Frank, let me thank you. No one that may be listening had the opportunity to listen to Congresswoman Baldwin and you speak of your existence. 
   So I rise today to make sure that everyone understands that this bill is about hate. Regular order is in place. It is about protecting young people who have an identity that is different from any of us. It is about reflecting the definition of hatred that says that it is an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil. Can we in America regard human life as evil? 
   Even as Christians, and many of us are not, the Bible dictates about the instruction of loving thy neighbor. This bill reflects on the needs of African Americans and Hispanics and the disabled and those with gender identity. It reflects on the fact that brutality and viciousness because of hate cannot be tolerated by a country that believes we are all created equal. 
   This is a fair bill. It does not encourage you to change your faith, but it encourages you to adhere to democracy and to the Constitution.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1592, the ``Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007.'' Mr. Speaker, as important as it is to apprehend, prosecute, convict, and punish severely those who commit hate crimes, we can all agree that in the long run it is even more important and better for society if we can increase our effectiveness in eradicating the desire to commit a hate crime in the first place. I have long believed, and research confirms, that if a person does not acquire a proclivity to hate as a juvenile, he or she is not likely to be motivated to commit crimes out of hate as an adult. 
   Mr. Speaker, Webster's Dictionary defines hate as a ``strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, before I proceed any further, I would be remiss if I failed to note that this legislation is more timely than any of us could have predicted just a month ago. Two weeks ago, at Virginia Tech University, one of the Nation's great land grant colleges, we witnessed the most senseless acts of violence on a scale unprecedented in our history. Neither the mind nor the heart can contemplate a cause that could lead a human being to inflict such injury and destruction on fellow human beings. The loss of life and innocence at Virginia Tech is a tragedy over which all Americans mourn and the thoughts and prayers of people of goodwill everywhere go out to the victims and their families. In the face of such overwhelming grief, I hope they can take comfort in the certain knowledge that unearned suffering is redemptive. 
   But the carnage at Virginia Tech also commands that we here in this body take a stand against senseless acts of violence taken against persons for no reason other than that they are different, whether in terms of race, religion, national origin, gender, or sexual orientation. It is long past time for our national community to declare that injuries inflicted on any member of the community by another simply because he or she is different poses a threat to the peace and security of the entire community. For that reason alone, such conduct must be outlawed and punished severely. That is why I have, Mr. Speaker, since 1999 introduced and supported strong legislation to deter and punish hate crimes, including as noted earlier, H.R. 254, the ``David Ray Hate Crime Prevention Act of 2007'' pending in this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, every act of violence is tragic and harmful in its consequences, but not all crime is based on hate. A ``hate crime'' is the violence of intolerance and bigotry, intended to hurt and intimidate someone because of their race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or disability. 
   The purveyors of hate use explosives, arson, weapons, vandalism, physical violence, and verbal threats of violence to instill fear in their victims, leaving them vulnerable to more attacks and feeling alienated, helpless, suspicious and fearful. Others may become frustrated and angry if they believe the local government and other groups in the community will not protect them. When perpetrators of hate are not prosecuted as criminals and their acts not publicly condemned, their crimes can weaken even those communities with the healthiest race relations. 
   Of all crimes, hate crimes are most likely to create or exacerbate tensions, which can trigger larger community-wide racial conflict, civil disturbances, and even riots. Hate crimes put cities and towns at risk of serious social and economic consequences. The immediate costs of racial conflicts and civil disturbances are police, fire, and medical personnel overtime, injury or death, business and residential property loss, and damage to vehicles and equipment. Long-term recovery may be hindered by a decline in property values, which results in lower tax revenues, scarcity of funds for rebuilding, and increased insurance rates. 
   Mr. Speaker, a study funded by the Bureau of Justice Statistics released September 2000, shows that 85 percent of law enforcement officials surveyed recognize bias-motivated violence to be more serious than similar crimes not motivated by bias.  
   Hate crimes are destructive and divisive. A random act of violence resulting in injury or even death is a tragic event that devastates the lives of the victim and their family, but the intentional selection and beating or murder of an individual because of who they are terrorizes an entire community and sometimes the Nation. For example, it is easy to recognize the difference between check-kiting and a cross burning; or an arson of an office building versus the intentional torching of a church or synagogue. The church or synagogue burning has a profound impact on the congregation, the faith community, the greater community, and the Nation. 
   Mr. Speaker, some opponents of hate crimes legislation claim that such legislation is a solution in search of a problem. They claim that there is no epidemic of bias-motivated violence and thus no need to legislate. I wish to briefly address this claim. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE TEST OF PATRIOTISM IS COURAGE -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Sometimes the test of patriotism is courage. And I would simply argue that every newspaper headline is not true. We, the Democrats, maintain the courage that America has asked us to exhibit, the love and respect for our soldiers, full funding in the emergency supplemental. 
   We also are to push the envelope. Isn't it interesting that Secretary Rice is now sitting down with a Syrian official, the same administration criticizing the Speaker of the House, who led to begin the diplomatic surge? 
   This is a failed policy. Vietnam was not a cut and run; our soldiers were victorious. So are the soldiers in Iraq; they are victorious. But this administration has failed and failed and failed. 
   The Democrats will maintain their courage. They are patriots. They believe it is time to bring our troops home, to entrust to the Maliki government the responsibility of sovereignty. It is important to lead the Iraqi people toward peace, not use our brave and valiant soldiers as shooting targets for a failed and miserable policy. 
   Patriots stand for courage, and the Democrats are courageous and will continue to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING AND RECOGNIZING MEALS ON WHEELS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 259, honoring and recognizing the work of the Meals on Wheels Association of America, MOWAA, its member senior nutrition programs throughout the country, and their annual March For Meals campaigns. I would also like to thank my colleague Chairman George Miller, of the Education and Labor Committee, for bringing this important legislation to the floor today. 
   The Meals on Wheels Association of America is the oldest and largest organization in the  United States representing those who provide meal services to people in need. The first home-delivered meal program in the United States started in 1954 in Philadelphia, PA. The Meals on Wheels Association of America gives cash grants to local senior meal programs throughout the country to assist in providing meals and other nutrition services. The mission of Meals on Wheels Association of America is ``to provide visionary leadership and professional training and to develop partnerships that will ensure the provision of quality nutrition services.'' 
   To cite just one example, Meals on Wheels of Greater Houston, in my home city, has been addressing the nutritional and emotional needs of seniors for 30 years. Meals on Wheels of 
   Greater Houston currently serves more than 3,300 hungry, homebound seniors. In January, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples awarded $9.5 million in State funding to almost 100 agencies that serve meals to homebound elderly and people with special needs, including $1.4 million to Meals on Wheels for Greater Houston. I personally know of the good work of the Meals on Wheels program because I chaired Houston's Interfaith Ministries Board which ran this program. I would also insure that the program survived. 
   Currently, senior nutrition programs such as Meals on Wheels report that 4 out of 10 programs have waiting lists for nutrition services. There are 78.2 million Baby Boomers, and one of those Baby Boomers turns 60 every 7 seconds. Every 8 seconds someone else is turning 50. The demand for nutrition services is increasing each and everyday and we must continue to support senior nutrition programs such as Meals on Wheels. 
   The March For Meals campaign has been slowly growing into a permanent part of the Meals on Wheels consciousness. March for Meals is a campaign that takes place at any time during the month of March. The month of March was chosen because it was during this month that the law was enacted that included senior meal programs in the Older Americans Act. Some programs choose to make their campaigns last the whole month, while others concentrate on a single week or day. The biggest component of March For Meals is the Mayors For Meals Day. 
   Today, Meals on Wheels programs generally operate locally, at the county level or smaller. Programs vary widely in their size, service provided, organization, and funding. Although Meals on Wheels Association of America is a national program, each local program is entirely independent. Depending on the program, meals may be delivered by paid drivers or by volunteers. Most clients of Meals on Wheels programs are elderly and programs receiving Federal funding may not serve people less than 60 years of age. 
   Mr. Speaker, this important legislation recognizes and honors the commendable hard work and dedication exhibited by Meals on Wheels for over the past 50 years. I encourage other Members of Congress to continue to support their local senior nutrition programs by participating in their annual March For Meals events and campaigns. For these reasons, I strongly support H. Res. 259 and urge all members to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SYMPATHY TO VICTIMS AND FAMILIES OF COLORADO SHOOTINGS -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 886, ``Expressing sympathy to the victims and families of the tragic acts of violence in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and Arvada, Colorado.'' 
   This important legislation will honor and memorialize those who were affected by the tragic events in Colorado Springs and Arvada. On that fateful day, a gunman took the lives of five people and wounded 5 more, subsequently taking his own life. 
   The shootings at New Life Church in Colorado Springs and the Youth With a Mission Center in Arvada on December 9, 2007, remind us once again that the wrath of violence can easily destroy the lives of a congregation gathered in a sanctified establishment. As we reflect on the lives that were spared, we duly note the actions of Jeanne Assam. Jeanne Assam, a former police officer and New Life Church member and security guard, is credited with halting the gunman's spree by shooting him. Though her gunfire did not kill the perpetrator, her act of courage and conviction allowed her to halt the gunman's spree, subsequently preventing the death of more people. 
   The carnage at the Colorado tragedy commands that we here in this body take a stand against senseless acts of violence whether here in our own country or elsewhere around the world. It is long past time for our national community to declare that injuries 
   inflicted on any member of the community by another simply based on hate or hatred of differences pose a threat to the peace and security of the entire community. For that reason alone, such conduct must be condemned and punished severely, if not prevented altogether. I hope that the incident in Colorado does not reflect a larger problem within our society; however, my optimism is guarded with the reality of an escalating amount of gun violence in schools, malls, and churches. 
   Neither the mind nor the heart can contemplate a cause that could lead a human being to inflict such injury and destruction on fellow human beings. We can never completely understand why these things happen; however, we must persevere through the melancholy. The loss of those lives and innocence is a tragedy which all Americans mourn. In the face of such overwhelming grief, I hope the families and friends of those affected can take comfort in the certain knowledge that unearned suffering is redemptive. My deepest sympathies are with the victims, their families, and everyone who is affected by this tragic situation. This devastation reaffirms why we, as public officials, must take steps to ensure that the United States is a safer environment where acts of violence based on hate are not tolerated. We cannot sufficiently articulate the feelings of sorrow that are universally felt. I extend my prayers and support to the bereaved families during this time of mourning. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in-so-doing, showing respect for the lives that were lost, sacrificed, and spared.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF APRIL 2008 AS NATIONAL CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1097, ``Expressing support for the designation of the month of April 2008, as National Child Abuse Prevention Month, to provide attention to the tragic circumstances that face some of our Nation's children on a daily basis and to underscore our commitment to preventing child abuse and neglect so that all children can live in safety and security.'' I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Joe Courtney of Connecticut, for introducing this important piece of legislation. 
   There is no greater crime that an individual can commit to a child than the crime of child molestation and child abuse. The perpetrators of this crime rob children of their innocence. Moreover, victims of child molestation are profoundly affected for the rest of their lives. As parents, elected officials and concerned citizens, we have an obligation to condemn this violence, work for stronger enforcement of the law and provide adequate funding for programs to assist children who may have experienced such abuse. 
   The problem of violence against children and sexual exploitation of children has been highlighted by recent events involving brutal acts of violence against children. Some recent incidents you may remember include: (1) the abduction, rape and killing of 9 year old Jessica Lunford (who was buried alive); (2) the slaying of 13 year old Sarah Lunde, both of whom were killed in Florida by career criminals and sex offenders. In Philadelphia, four defendants were charged with the stabbing and killing of a 15 year old girl, who they then threw into the Schuykill River. All of these tragic events have underscored the continuing epidemic of violence against children. Children who are abused or neglected are at higher risk in adulthood for health problems such as alcoholism, depression, drug abuse, eating disorders, obesity, suicide, and certain chronic diseases 
   Sadly, sexual abuse is often committed by a family member. Approximately 91,000 of the victims of abuse and neglect had not yet reached their first birthday, with more than 84 percent being less than a month old. Incest is the most common form of child sexual abuse. It is often perpetrated by adults that have been entrusted with caring for a child--a family friend, babysitter, a teacher, day care worker, or even religious leaders. At least one out of five adult women and one out of ten adult men report having been sexually abused as children. In Texas, there were more than 111,000 investigations of child abuse and neglect by the Child Protective Services in Texas. Of those cases, 7,650 were sexual abuse. 
   In addition, the sexual victimization of children is overwhelming in magnitude and largely unrecognized and underreported. Statistics show that 1 in 5 girls and 1 in 10 boys are sexually exploited before they reach adulthood, yet less than 35 percent of the incidents are reported to authorities. This problem is exacerbated by the number of children who are solicited online--according to the Department of Justice I in 5 children (10 to 17 years old) receive unwanted sexual solicitations online. 
   It is estimated that approximately one-third of abused and neglected children grow up to victimize their own children. Child abuse and neglect can have long-term economic and societal costs. Community-based services to overburdened families are far less costly than the emotional and physical damage inflicted on children or the costs of child protective services, law enforcement, courts, foster care, health care, and the treatment of adults recovering from child abuse. The annual estimated cost to the United States for not preventing child abuse and neglect is approximately $104 billion according to a 2008 report by Prevent Child Abuse America. 
   It will take more than just stronger enforcement of the law to prevent child molestation and other forms of abuse against children. To end this serious abuse of children, all segments of the community such as parents, educators, religious leaders, and community leaders must create a nurturing environment for children where they know that they are loved and deserve to be protected from violence and sexual abuse and feel comfortable in reporting. 
   Local law enforcement receives increased flexibility in how it invests grants for child abuse victims, specifically by providing access to criminal conviction records by child protective and child welfare workers. This would enable workers to determine if troubled children are victims of abuse. State law enforcement would also have access to court child custody, visitation, protection, guardianships and stay away orders. Police could use this information to establish the validity of urgent complaints concerning children who may have been kidnapped by an abusive ex-spouse. 
   I express my support for the designation of National Child Abuse Prevention Month. I believe we should increase public awareness of child abuse and neglect prevention and should continue to work to reduce the incidence of child abuse and neglect. We should recognize that child abuse and neglect prevention programs reduce child maltreatment, strengthen families, reduce mental illness, deter criminal behavior, and contribute to children's positive emotional, academic, social, and cognitive development.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SALUTING ``HOMES FOR HOMETOWN HEROES'' -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I'm delighted to rise today to salute ``Homes for Hometown Heroes.'' 
   Many of us, my colleagues and myself, Members from as far away as California and Arizona, had the privilege of being in Houston, Texas, last evening at the Hyatt Regency to celebrate a very unique and special program where our hometown heroes, injured soldiers, were able to receive their own home by the largess and generosity of many heroes in our community. 
   Madam Speaker, it's a moving experience to see our soldiers coming in injured but yet strong and resilient. What a privilege to be able to present to them a key to their own home. 
   I look forward to working with this caucus, the Democratic Caucus, the Republican Conference, and all of our Members to spread this message across America. One has said that all of what they've done, they deserve to be respected and responded to, a home for the injured soldiers, brain damaged, those who cannot walk in wheelchairs, to simply say ``thank you.'' I look forward to announcing a posttraumatic stress disorder center in my own 18th Congressional District. 
   Last evening reinforced the fact that nothing is too great for those who have put their lives on the front line. I look forward to celebrating the hometown heroes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TEXAS MILITARY VETERANS POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5517, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 7231 FM 1960 in Humble, Texas, as the ``Texas Military Veterans Post Office.'' I would like to thank my colleague, Mr. POE, for introducing this important bill, and Chairman WAXMAN of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for bringing this legislation to the floor today. I strongly support honoring veterans of our armed forces, and I am proud to join my colleagues in the Texas delegation as an original cosponsor of this legislation. I hope my colleagues will join me in designating this facility as the Texas Military Veteran Post Office as a token of our appreciation. 
   The American men and women who serve in our armed forces are one of our Nation's most precious resources. Their service to this Nation could never be repaid, but we can ensure that our veterans who have faithfully served our country receive the recognition they are due and the services they need. Passing this resolution will send a strong message to our veterans that we appreciate their service. Our Nation has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the men and women who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We must show every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine that we honor and continue to respect their service to our Nation. 
   Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans after every conflict, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to both meeting the needs of veterans of previous wars, and to provide a fitting welcome home to those who are now serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Veterans have kept their promise to serve our Nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. We must now ensure that we keep our promises to our veterans. 
   Because I feel it is time that we recognize the success of our Nation's armed forces, I have introduced H.R. 4020, the ``Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' This legislation recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq as expressed by the Congressional mandate allowing for use of force, encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq. 
   Most importantly, my legislation provides affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation from a grateful nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq. It authorizes the Secretary of Defense to award grants to State and local governments ``to conduct suitable activities commemorating military success in Iraq'' and ``to create appropriate memorials honoring those who lost their lives securing military success in Iraq.'' My legislation sets up grants for veterans of Operation Iraqi Freedom, stating ``the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award to each veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom a grant in the amount of $5,000. The purpose of that grant is to facilitate the veteran's transition to civilian life.'' I am pleased that thirteen of my colleagues have already signed onto this important legislation. 
   Renaming this post office facility to honor our veterans is a small but important step toward giving veterans the full accolades that they deserve. At various points in our Nation's history, we have sent our sons and daughters overseas to fight in defense of the great values and principles our Nation was founded upon. At times when the need is greatest, America's soldiers have always stepped up to protect our Nation. Let us show them our gratitude by presenting them with a postal facility that stands as a symbol of their dedication and sacrifice. Let us never forget that one of the things that makes our Nation truly great are the young men and women who have fought to defend it and our way of life. 
   I firmly believe that we must commend the men and women of our military for their exemplary performance and success. When World War II finally came to an end in 1945, celebrations erupted on the streets of cities and towns across our Nation. One of the most enduring images of that war is not a picture of bombs or destruction, but of a jubilant soldier kissing a woman in New York City's Times Square. The veterans we continue to honor as the ``Greatest Generation'' returned home not only to open arms, but also to the G.I. Bill, which offered them college or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation. It also provided loans for returning veterans to buy homes and start businesses. 
   This Congress has begun to show our appreciation through legislation. We have already enacted significant increases in veterans' health care funding--increasing it by $5.2 billion. The increase will go for veterans' health programs, including mental health care for returning veterans, especially for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 
   In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ``As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the praises of our Nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5517, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 7231 FM 1960 in Humble, Texas, as the ``Texas Military Veteran Post Office.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IT IS TIME FOR AN ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE TO HELP HOMEOWNERS -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Today, Madam Speaker, we have the honor of celebrating the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King. I am reminded of the 40th year of his death and what he was committed to, that is, the equality of all people, the economic equality. And that is why in 1968 he was bringing to Washington poor people from around America. 
   It is time for an economic stimulus package, and the United States Congress must respond to the pain of the American people who are losing their homes. An immediate moratorium on those who are being foreclosed on, an infusion of capital to help them save their homes, and a freeze on the adjustable rates of these individuals who are suffering, who have invested in their homes, paid for their homes, and are the victims of scandalous and unscrupulous individuals who would take advantage of them. 
   Let us keep the dream alive and fight for those who have invested in the American Dream. Let us put forward an economic stimulus package that will save the American people and their homes and really say that America is going toward the promised land. 
   Happy birthday, Dr. Martin Luther King. Thank you so very much for all that you have done for all America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CENTENNIAL FOUNDING OF THE ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY, INC. -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, this evening I rise to commemorate the centennial of the founding of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., the first Greek-letter organization established by black college women in America. This prestigious organization, founded at Howard University by nine visionary women in 1908, at a period when Jim Crow laws flourished in the law books, knew the rigors of their journey during the early 1900s. The organization, which has grown to 200,000 members in 975 chapters worldwide, includes an extraordinary collection of women, who now encompass diverse ethnicities and nationalities and are united by a bond of sisterhood and a commitment to service. 
   As a member of the Alpha Kappa Omega Graduate Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority in Houston, Texas, I am proud to honor this historic milestone and welcome my sorors to the birthplace of Alpha Kappa Alpha at Howard University in Washington, DC. This evening, the sorority will conclude a 4-day salute that culminated in a gala week of tributes, salutes, and praise. Today, one hundred years ago, amazing sisterhood, the passion for humanitarian service, and the campaign for education brought nine ardent women together to form Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. 
   Alpha Kappa Alpha was founded to touch lives, improve the stature of women and serve humankind. Its mission is to develop leaders, expand Alpha Kappa Alpha's economic achievements, and ensure that the Sorority is fully engaged in achieving its possible goals. Sojourner Truth once said, that ``If women want any rights more than [they've] got, why don't they just take them and not be talking about it.'' This quote embodies the spirit that the determined women of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. exhibit in order to attain the long-awaited goals of freedom and equality. 
   The sorority is ``home'' to college presidents, deans, directors of Fortune 500 companies, judges, mayors, Members of Congress, state legislatures, city councils, and school boards. This sorority has provided the foundation for intellectuals such as Sharon Pratt Kelly, the first woman to serve as mayor of Washington, DC, Angie Brookes, the first woman President of the United Nations, the long revered Rosa Parks, mother of the Civil Rights Movement, Azie Taylor Morton, the only African-American to hold the position of Treasurer of the United States, and First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt. Alpha Kappa Alpha women have served in the United States Armed Services and devoted their lives to saving ours. I salute those women today who are active or retired military 
   personnel. They and women such as Lt. Col. Anita McMiller, Deputy Legislative Assistant to Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, are the sheroes that should be emulated by the next generation. 
   AKA's have long referred to founder Ethel Hedgeman Lyle as the ``guiding light,'' a figurative phrase that insists upon one's aptitude, resilience, unwavering service, and valor. President George W. Bush, in his address at the 55th Inauguration, stated that:   
   Our nation relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and surround the lost with love. Americans, at our best, value the life we see in one another, and must always remember that even the unwanted have worth.   
   At a time when our Nation, in fact the world, has experienced unprecedented upheavals, Alpha Kappa Alpha has stayed the course of its mission and provided an anchor for scores of individuals and families by empowering communities through our committed service. A service that has endured 100 years because Barbara A. McKinzie, the Centennial International President, declares that it was built on bedrock of strength. 
   I am proud to stand on the floor of the House tonight and pay tribute to this extraordinary organization, which has been helping our young women find the support, courage, and passion they need to become leaders in our society.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMPROVING HEAD START ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman of the full committee for his leadership and all the members of the committee and Mr. Kildee for his leadership as well on some of these very important issues. We have worked together. I thank the ranking member for their long-standing understanding that we must collaborate when it comes to teaching our children. 
   I rise to support H.R. 1429 and had the pleasure of visiting a Head Start facility in my community. What was the greatest joy was to be able to see the parents and children working together on this very special day, and I want to thank the committee for persevering against all odds, particularly the opposition of those who would say it is time to change drastically, to do a surgical reform on Head Start. 
   It has worked for some 30-plus years, and what has been done in this legislation is the right direction: enhanced professional development, providing more degreed teachers teaching, providing opportunity for the associate degrees, working with caretakers or assistants in the classroom, and really  teaching our children the ``yes, I can'' method. 
   I rise also to support the amendment of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson that will be offered that provides the opportunity for collaboration with historically black colleges. 
   What we need to be doing is investing more in Head Start by proving that it has been a success, improving classroom and teacher quality, raising the quality of teachers, and increasing funding for teacher and staff salaries. 
   But most importantly, anyone who has taken the opportunity to see the youngsters, the babies that are in this program, see their eyes open wide, see them understand the world and the colors and what is real and that they can be the greatness that they are, we know that H.R. 1429 is on the right path, and I encourage my colleagues to enthusiastically support the Improving Head Start Act of 2007. These are the babies not of yesterday, but today.  
    Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1429, the Improving the Head Start Act of 2007. This bipartisan legislation would allow up to 10,000 more children from low-income families to have access to the world of opportunities offered by early developmental education. It also appropriates the funding required for a range of necessary improvements, ensuring we are offering our children comprehensive and regulated programs. I urge my colleagues to join me in expressing that a child's educational and developmental opportunities should not be limited by his or her family's income. 
   Head Start creates opportunities for children who are born without any. This program provides comprehensive early education programs and support services for well over a million children across our Nation; children whose families would otherwise be unable to offer them these opportunities. The program's holistic approach to education provides a wide range of services in addition to basic education, including medical and dental screenings, nutritional services, parental involvement activities, and mental health services. Poverty has proven devastating to child development and success, but Head Start has proven capable of providing the broad range of support that all children need to succeed in school, and indeed in life. 
   This program is particularly crucial to minority communities. Of the over 1 million children enrolled in Head Start programs, 65 percent belong to minority groups. In a world and a country where minority children may continue to face discrimination and limited opportunities, Head Start ensures that they are prepared to begin school when they reach the proper age. This program has proven successful in minimizing the ``readiness gap'' between program participants and their more affluent peers. 
   In Harris County, TX, where my district is located, Head Start has been active since 1999. In this county alone, the program currently operates in 17 locations, and has served over 5,000 children since its inception. There are, at present, over 1,170 children enrolled in its wide array of programs. In Harris County, and across our Nation, Head Start programs help children grow mentally, socially, emotionally, and physically. 
   This bill contains many vital provisions. It authorizes an additional $450 million dollars for 2008, funds that would allow up to 10,000 more children access to Head Start programs. It increases funding for teacher and staff salaries, ensuring a quality workforce and providing for the hiring of additional qualified staff. H.R. 1429 re-evaluates and updates the current standards and assessments, suspending the badly flawed National Reporting System. The bill also boosts cooperation between Head Start and state and local child care programs, as well as improving coordination with state health, mental health, and family services. 
   This bill also contains important provisions to improve accountability for these government-funded programs. It includes a new system of application review that assesses program quality, allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to more quickly strip funding from low-quality programs. These review systems ensure both that our Nation's children are receiving the best services we can offer them, and that taxpayer dollars are spent to maximum effect. 
   Mr. Chairman, as Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am dedicated to providing the best possible opportunities and support to our Nation's children. Head Start is an important aspect of ensuring our children's future. I strongly support H.R. 1429, and I encourage my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31) -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote to override the President's veto of H.R. 1591, the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans'' Health and Iraq Accountability Act.'' By vetoing the bipartisan Iraq Accountability Act last night, the President vetoed the will of the American people. The President 
   vetoed a responsible funding bill for the troops that would have provided more funding for our troops and military readiness than even the President requested. 
   By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President rejected a bill that reflects the will of the American people to wind down this war. By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President turned a deaf ear to the loud message sent by the American people last November. 
   I will vote to override the President's veto because the Iraq Accountability Act offers us the first real chance to end the misguided invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan. This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the responsibility for bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs and that is squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government. 
   Mr. Speaker, in vetoing the legislation, the President claimed the Iraq Accountability Act, H.R. 1591 would undermine our troops and threaten the safety of the American people here at home. Coming from an Administration that has been wrong on every important question relating to the decision to launch the Iraq War as well the conduct of it, this claim is laughable. It is nearly as ridiculous as the President's often stated claim of ``progress'' in Iraq. The facts, of course, are otherwise. The U.S. death toll in Iraq reached 104 for April--making it the deadliest month of the year and one of the deadliest of the entire war. It is therefore little wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans disapprove of the way the President is handling the war. But more important, the President's claim that the Iraq Accountability Act undermines our troops and threatens the safety of the American people here at home is simply not true. 
   Republican Senator Chuck Hagel recently returned from Iraq and paints a bleak picture: This thing is coming undone quickly, and [Prime Minister] Maliki's government is weaker by the day. The police are corrupt top to bottom. The oil problem is a huge problem. They still can't get anything through the parliament--no hydrocarbon law, no de-Baathification law, no provincial elections. 
   Mr. Speaker, many of the Nation's most highly respected generals and several leading Republicans have endorsed H.R. 1591; all of them oppose the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. Take, for example, Maj. Gen. John Batiste, U.S. Army (Ret.):  
   This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. It acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing the nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and Marine Corps are at the breaking point with little to show for it, and that our military alone will never establish representative government in Iraq. The administration got it terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to their constitutional responsibilities.  
   Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, USA, Ret. supports this legislation because it ``gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' According to Major Eaton, the real audience for the timeline language is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq:  
   The argument that this bill aides the enemy is simply not mature--nobody on the earth underestimates the United States' capacity for unpredictability. It may further create some sense of urgency in the rest of our government, beginning with the State Department.  
   Lt. Gen. William E. Odom, U.S. Army (Ret.), President Reagan's Director of the National Security Agency, supports the bill because it 
   gives the President a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, re-orient U.S. strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help from many other countries--the only way peace will eventually be achieved. 
   Mr. Speaker, to date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history. But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job. 
   As a result of the colossal miscalculation in deciding to invade Iraq, the loss of public trust resulting from the misrepresentation of the reasons for launching that invasion, and the breath taking incompetence in mismanaging the occupation of Iraq, the Armed Forces and the people of the United States have suffered incalculable damage. 
   The war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,316 brave service men and women--64 in the first 16 days of this month. More than 24,912 
   Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is time to hold the Bush Administration and the Iraqi government accountable. This bill's timetable and benchmarks finally hold the Iraqis accountable. As retired Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton has stated, This bill gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group. The real audience for the timeline language is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq. 
   Even Defense Secretary Robert Gates has noted that the timetable is helpful--and sends  the message that ``the clock is ticking.'' Gates said ``The strong feelings expressed in the Congress about the timetable probably have had a positive impact. . . . in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended commitment.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, in overriding the President's veto, this House will be doing the business and expressing the will of the American people. In the latest CBS News/New York Times poll, 64 percent of 
   Americans favor a timetable that provides for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq in 2008. In the same poll, 57 percent of Americans believe that Congress, not the President, should have the last say when it comes to setting troop levels in Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, in overriding the President's veto, Congress is fulfilling its constitutional responsibilities and exercising the first check on the President's power in 6 years. As Iraq Study Group Co-Chairman Lee Hamilton has pointed out, The Founders of our Nation never envisioned an unfettered president making unilateral decisions about American lives and military power. They did indeed make the president the commander in chief, but they gave to Congress the responsibility for declaring war, for making rules governing our land and naval forces, for overseeing policy, and of course the ability to fund war or to cease funding it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all members to join me in overriding the President's veto of Iraq Accountability Act, H.R. 1591. This is the best way to ensure accountability to our soldiers who have been sent 
   into battle without proper training or equipment or a clear mission. It is the best way to keep faith with our veterans who are not getting the best medical care when they come home. Overriding the President's veto is essential to restoring our military that is being stretched to the limits by the Bush policy. Last, it is absolutely necessary to regain the confidence of the American people who demand a new direction in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, I rise to support the underlying bill, H.R. 1867, and rise to express my appreciation and thank the Science Committee for the bipartisan effort that they have always engaged in, and frankly, want, to thank them for the opportunity that I have had to serve on that committee for a number of years. 
   Usually we rise and say with great reluctance, I rise to oppose the amendment. I might say with great vigor I rise to oppose the amendment. Because as I served on the Science Committee for a number of years, I used to always start the hearings with the idea that science is the work of the 21st century, and certainly the National Science Foundation sets the framework for encouraging research and innovativeness. 
   I can't imagine that the distinguished gentleman who has offered this amendment would venture to argue with me, and I cite just a few examples that I think most of my colleagues and most of America frankly understand how our lives have been changed by simply these innovations. Of course, some of them were by private ingenuity and private concepts and funding possibly, but that was an America of yesteryear. 
   But where would we be without the Wright Brothers and the airplane? Where would we be without Thomas Edison and electricity and the light bulb? Even though as we move into the 21st century, we want to be protectors of the environment and certainly want to be conservationists, look how that has changed our lives. And what about the Internet, interestingly enough, one of the success stories of DOD research. 
   The most important part of it is the work that was created, the work that was created by these inventions and by the opportunities to allow our imagination to generate a better quality of life for Americans. 
   This bill, H.R. 1867, which, as I said, I enthusiastically support, creates work for the 21st century. It emphasizes the underserved. It encourages research to be done by Historically Black Colleges and Historically Hispanic Serving Institutions, and as well, to encourage diversity in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. 
   There is an important provision that mentions, of course, the intent of this particular legislation to determine how different minority groups are impacted by this funding, which is whether or not we can increase the number of underrepresented minorities in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, and how we can increase women in these fields. For the time I have worked on the Science Committee as a former member of the committee, these were issues that we worked on together. 
   What the gentleman is trying to achieve with this across-the-board cut is amazing to me, because what he is actually saying to the world and to America is we are second rate. We don't believe in investing in the next generation of research. We don't believe in uplifting those who are interested in these disciplines to give them merit and worth. 
   I would ask the gentleman, though I am sure his rebuttal will be that we don't pay those dollars. I don't know if we do. What is a high school football or basketball coach worth? What is a college football, basketball or any other sport's coach worth? Can we not, as a Nation, make a commitment to the research community by affirming their importance? 
   Dr. EHLERS and Dr. BAIRD have worked together affirming the importance of research, and not closing the door of this important responsibility that we have. 
   I am fearful, Mr. Chairman, of where this Nation is headed when we pull back on the ability of our Nation to invest in the 21st century technology. NASA represents that, the NASA Space Station represents that, the centers represent that, the laboratories represent that. 
   We want to encourage this funneling, this pathway, if you will, this farm team of researchers, and this particular legislation does that by increased funding, by highlighting the underserved, and I believe doing a lot more. 
   Let me conclude by saying I had intended to offer amendment to ensure that Historically Black Colleges and Hispanic Serving Institutions would be a viable part of the legislation. As I have reviewed it, I know that the intent is there, and that we will look forward to working with the members of the committee and working with this Congress to make sure that the United States is creating work for the 21st century. 
   Oppose the amendment and support the bill for the betterment of America.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1867, the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2007. This bill is another important component of the new Democratic majority's Innovation Agenda, which is designed to make our Nation more able to compete successfully in the global economy. 
   Mr. Chairman, to ensure that the United States will continue to have a workforce ready for global competition, it is essential that we make a sustained commitment to federal research and development. The National Science Foundation is crucial to these goals, providing vital support to our Nation's science and engineering projects and researchers. 
   Created by the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, the National Science Foundation, or NSF, is tasked with the broad mission of supporting science and engineering. This agency provides funding for basic research across many disciplines, and offers support for merit awards, state-of-the-art tools, and instrumentation and facilities. The majority of the research supported by the NSF is conducted at U.S. colleges and universities. 
   This bill reaffirms our commitment to scientific excellence by reauthorizing the National Science Foundation (NSF) for three years and providing nearly $21 billion in funding for fiscal years 2008-2010. This legislation appropriates specific funding for each of the NSF's major accounts: research and related activities, education and human resources, major research equipment and facilities construction, agency operations and award management, the National Science Board, and the Office of the Inspector General. A number of specific programs within the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) educational categories are singled out as the recipients of funding. Additionally, specific funding is designated for Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) awards. By raising the cap for these awards, this bill allows the NSF to support a wider range of state-of-the-art research tools. 
   This bill contains many other important provisions. It requires an evaluation of NSF's role in supporting interdisciplinary research, and encourages university and industry partnerships. It encourages young investigators through a new grant program, and it requires a National Academy of Sciences report on barriers to and strategies for increasing the participation of underrepresented minorities in STEM fields. 
   The NSF ensures a continued national supply of scientific and engineering personnel, while promoting basic research and education across a wide array of scientific and technological disciplines. In the interest of both economic prosperity and military capability, the United States must continue producing a workforce knowledgeable to maintain technological competitiveness. If we are to do this,  this Congress must continue funding and strengthening science and mathematics education. Supporting this bill is an important step, and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman. 
   Let me be the first, because I believe we are all distinguished gentlepersons, gentleladies and gentlemen, say that my remarks were to the value of this bill and to my philosophical disagreement with the author of this amendment, and certainly recognize that he is proud of America and all of the inventiveness that she has, and therefore any intent that might have been perceived by my words were only to glorify this bill and to celebrate our researchers and our science in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECTING THE NATION'S HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we just finished looking at two very important legislative initiatives by the Democratic leadership and as well a bipartisan effort dealing with issues like Head Start and the National Science Foundation. 
   As you look at the question of education, I rise today to talk of the plight of historically black colleges in America. It is important that we recognize that America's competitive edge will be based upon the opportunities for all Americans. 
   I am disappointed in the U.S. Department of Education's failure to fully enforce the 1964 Civil Rights Act, title VI, and one of the victims of that failure of enforcement are schools in Texas, Texas Southern University and Prairie View A&M. It has now become a national issue, an issue of importance to America because we are falling behind. 
   That is why the National Science Foundation legislation was important, but it is now also important for the U.S. Department of Education to wake up and do its job in protecting the Nation's historically black colleges. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IN SUPPORT OF THE CONTINUING RESOLUTION'S PASSAGE -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important for us to reflect on the last couple of hours of debate, and I call it fixing of the fiscal calamity that occurred over the last year when this body and the majority of my friends on the other side of the aisle failed to complete our funding responsibilities. 
   Today, we passed a vigorous CR, and I think it should not be interpreted as a negative, but we should look at the positives that we will be able to provide, if you will, the continuing of funding and get immediately into, one, the emergency supplemental but also the appropriations process. $3.6 billion now goes extra to our veterans, many of them returning from Iraq for their health care. 
   The change in the section 8 for many that are not being housed because of a faulty formula, we now can provide housing for many in our community. And, yes, an enhanced funding for scientific research. The ability for our agencies to reprogram their dollars. Many of us will be working, for instance in my district, I will be working to ensure the funding of the Texas Southern University Laboratory School through the Department of Housing; and, yes, we will be working to get NASA funding by redeploying or to redistribute those funds. 
   This is a good CR. The agencies can work with it. Make sure the agencies work right on behalf of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 20, which among other things avert the impeding budgetary train wreck left by the Republican-controlled 109th Congress. I want to pay particular tribute to Mr. OBEY, the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee for his incredible work in fashioning this legislation that will enable us to put behind us the mess left by last Congress and get on to the important business of addressing the real and pressing needs of the American people. 
   Mr. Speaker, last November millions of Americans went to the polls to register the strong disgust with the Republican dominated control of the legislative and executive branches of our Federal Government. Americans were fed up with a Republican Congress and its legacy of a culture of corruption, its failure to address the pressing needs of the American people, its unwillingness to provide effective oversight of the executive branch, its fiscal irresponsibility that resulted in record budget deficits and added trillions to the national debt, and its ability to complete one of the most basic tasks of the legislative branch: to pass the appropriations bills needed to fund the government. Is it any wonder that Americans were voting for a new way of doing the people's business when they elected the Democratic majorities in the House and Senate? I think not. We Democrats promised a new and better direction for America. And we have been delivering. 
   Mr. Speaker, behold what we accomplished in less than the first 100 legislative hours of our majority. We passed H.R. 1, which implements the recommendations of the 911 Commission; we passed H.R. 2, raising the minimum wage by $2.10 an hour over three years and providing a much needed raise to nearly 5 million workers; we passed H.R. 3, which will provide funding for embryonic stem cell research and provide hope for millions of Americans suffering from some of the most debilitating illnesses. 
   But we did not stop there. We passed H.R. 4, which requires Medicaid to negotiate lower prescription drug prices for our seniors and disabled citizens; we passed H.R. 5, which will make college more affordable to middle and working class Americans by cutting the interest rate on federally insured student loans in half; and we passed H.R. 6, which is a substantial start in making this country more energy independent. 
   And we accomplished all this, Mr. Speaker, after draining the swamp and ending the culture of corruption by adopting the strongest, toughest ethics and lobbying rules in history. 
   Today, we clean up the fiscal mess left by the Republican-led 109th Congress. The last Congress abdicated its duty to be a faithful and responsible steward of the public fisc. They shirked their responsibility to establish the right priorities and make the right choices to serve the American people. They failed to pass nine of the 
   eleven appropriations bills needed to sustain the operations of government for Fiscal Year 2007. 
   Mr. Speaker, thanks to your superb leadership, and especially the extraordinary legislative craftsmanship of our remarkable Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, we rectify these Republican failures today. The Continuing Resolution we take up today, H.J. Res. 20, is not the ideal manner to fund the government and contains some provisions that each of us might not like, unlike the President's decision to escalate the war in Iraq, the choices reflected in H.J. Res. 20 represent the best available alternatives out of a universe of worst choices. That is why, Mr. Speaker, I rise to offer my support for the Fiscal Year 2007 Continuing Resolution, and my appreciation to the leadership, the Chairman and members of the Committee, and for all my colleagues who join me in voting for H.J. Res. 20. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.J. Res. 20, totals $463.5 billion, the amount remaining under the Republican budget resolution for the current fiscal year. Most programs are funded at FY 2006 levels with increases to cover the cost of pay increases. Of course, it was also necessary to make additions to maintain staffing levels, avoid furloughs, and generally meet increased costs or workloads for agencies, particularly the Department of Justice, the federal judiciary, the Social Security Administration, the FAA (including air traffic control), international peacekeeping operations, the Indian Health Service, the Food and Drug Administration, and the USDA Food Safety Inspection Service. 
   But Mr. Speaker, because the new Democratic majority knows how to, and does not shirk from, choosing wisely and setting the right priorities, in this continuing resolution we were also able to provide significant new investments for high priority needs in many areas, including veterans healthcare and assistance, law enforcement, public health, housing and education, scientific research, energy independence, transportation, and the environment. Let me discuss briefly some of the more important and beneficial provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL CAPITAL SECURITY AND SAFETY ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, first and foremost, I think it is imperative that we understand that the security and safety of our Nation's capitol should be of vital importance to all Americans, not simply the residents of the District of Columbia. 
   My dear colleague and District of Columbia Representative, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton along with Congressman Henry Waxman of California, drafted comprehensive and sensible firearm legislation which the Childers/Souder amendment not only eviscerates but allows residents and federal officials to places in immense danger. 
   CHILDERS/SOUDER AMENDMENT
   The Childers/Souder Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute completely destroys the sensible Norton/Waxman Home Rule bill. 
   The dangerous consequences include: 
   No gun registration to let the police know who has guns and to trace guns used in crimes. 
   No regulation of guns, only a bare federal statute resulting in one of the most permissive gun laws in the Nation--post 9/11. 
   No age limit for possession of guns, including military-style weapons. 
   Permits a person who is voluntarily committed to a mental institution to own a gun the day after he gets out. 
   Federal law forbids a person to cross State lines to purchase a gun and bring it back, but this makes an exception uniquely for District residents to cross State lines to purchase guns and bring them back from Maryland and Virginia. 
   Requires a ``gun show loophole,'' which avoids background checks in the nation's capital, i.e., District of Columbia residents can purchase weapons from private individuals and at gun shows without background checks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING THE 221ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1356, Celebrating the 221st anniversary of the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America and honoring the efforts of the 42 delegates who attended the majority of the Constitutional Convention meetings and the 39 signers, introduced by my distinguished colleague Representative GARRETT. This legislation acknowledges the significance of the ideals established by the Constitution, including the principle of a limited Federal Government with a system of checks and balances, and recognizes the Constitution as the source responsible for our Nation's ability to withstand calamity and preserve stability. 
   QUOTE 
   ``Don't interfere with anything in the Constitution. That must be maintained, for it is the only safeguard of our liberties.''--Abraham Lincoln. 
   BACKGROUND 
   The members of the Constitutional Convention signed the United States Constitution on September 17, 1787, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Constitutional Convention convened in response to dissatisfaction with the Articles of Confederation and the need for a strong centralized government. After 4 months of secret debate and many compromises, the proposed Constitution was submitted to the States for approval. Although the vote was close in some States, the Constitution was eventually ratified and the new Federal Government came into existence in 1789. The Constitution established the U.S. Government as it exists today. 
   The Constitution represents the founding of our Government as we know it today. For 221 years, the United States has fought to maintain a democracy that equally represents everyone that resides within the boundaries of our Nation. Without this sacred document, the rules that govern our Nation would be obsolete. The concrete separation that ensures the stability of our Government and thus, our Nation is due to the Constitutional Convention that we recognize today. 
   TEXAS 
   Texas became a member of this great Nation in 1845. Since that moment, Texas has been proud to be a member of such a great nation like the United States, and as a Representative for the 18th District of Texas I am proud to represent my constituents within the legislative branch of this Government. It takes the help of every branch of governments at a number of different levels to accomplish all the things our government is capable of, and today, I am proud to be a Representative of Texas and the United States. It is a privilege to represent the people of my State and my district in Washington, DC. 
   CONCLUSION 
   I believe we must pass this resolution to demonstrate how proud we are to celebrate the success of our Founding Fathers and to acknowledge those who put our system of government on paper allowing the United States to become such a renowned nation. This resolution encourages us to remember those intelligent men who put their hearts and souls into developing a system to give equality and representation to all people, and as we stand together now, after 221 years, we must recognize their important part in developing the Constitution that governs our great Nation today.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL ADOPTION DAY AND NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I stand here today in support of H.R. 1432, ``Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Adoption Day and National Adoption Month by Promoting National Awareness of Adoption and the Children in Foster Care Awaiting Families, Celebrating Children and Families Involved in Adoption, Recognizing Current Programs and Efforts Designed to Promote Adoption, and Encouraging People in the United States to Seek Improved Safety, Permanency, and Well-Being for All Children'' introduced by Congressman PORTER.  
   The fundamental purpose of adoption is to serve the best interests of children. It does so by providing loving, responsible, and legally permanent parents when their biological parents cannot or will not parent them. Serving the best interests of children should be paramount in deciding all issues of adoption policy and practice. 
   Adoption is healthy, satisfying, and good for children, not an enduring challenge to identity and wholeness. The children may have additional questions and curiosities to sort out, but adoption is not a psychological burden or pathology as some theorists treat it. Adoption is the way one joined one's family, not a defining characteristic or lifelong process. Persons adopted as infants grow up as healthy and productive as people raised in their biological families. To the extent there can be a greater risk of emotional or behavioral problems for children adopted out of foster care at later ages, the correlation is not the result of being adopted, but rather of difficulties experienced prior to adoption, such as neglect or abuse. The vast majority of foster children make the transition into their adoptive families and grow up very successfully. 
   Today, in the United States there are 500,000 children in the foster care system and of those children, there are 129,000 waiting for families to adopt them. The number of youth who ``age out'' of the foster care system by reaching adulthood without being placed in a permanent home has increased by more than 58 percent since 1998, as nearly 27,000 foster youth ``aged out'' of foster care during 2007 which is appalling and unacceptable. In addition, 3 in 10 people in the United States have considered adoption; a majority of them have misconceptions about the process of adopting children from foster care. Many Americans, approximately 45 percent believe that children enter the foster care system because of juvenile delinquency. The reality of the matter is that the vast majority of children in the foster care system were victims of neglect, abandonment, or abuse. Furthermore, almost half of the American population believes that foster care adoption is expensive and are not aware of the fact that there is no substantial cost for adopting children from foster care. Moreover, financial support in the form of an adoption assistance subsidy is available to adoptive families of eligible children adopted from foster care and continues after the adoption is finalized until the child is 18, so that income will not be a barrier to becoming a parent to a foster child who needs to belong to a family. 
   Passing H.R. 1432 is essential for Congress to demonstrate their support for placing children in safe and positive family environments. The first National Adoption Day was in the year 2000; since then, 20,000 children have joined families during National Adoption Day, and in 2006, adoptions were finalized for over 3,300 children through more than 250 National Adoption Day events in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. 
   We must continue to take stride to reach out and do our best to encourage safe, positive environment for the children of the United States. This resolution will enhance the support for successful adoptions and their support for National Adoption Month in November. When orphaned children are placed in a positive, encouraging, and permanent family environment, they are in a situation where they can grow and experience life in a non-threatening way. Adoption is something that benefits the entire Nation as our children are given places where they can feel secure. 
   I firmly believe that we must pass this legislation to demonstrate our support for Adoption and National Adoption month. This legislation will enable us to promote healthy and safe adoptions and celebrate the successful adoptions that ensure the well-being of children.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 3406, the ``ADA Restoration Act of 2007.'' I wholeheartedly support this bill and urge my colleagues to support it also. The changes embodied by this Act, that restore the with Disabilities Act of 1990 (``ADA'') to its original purpose, are long overdue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FOSTERING CONNECTIONS TO SUCCESS AND INCREASING ADOPTIONS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6893, The Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague, Representative McDERMOTT. This important legislation encourage a safe and successful adoptions which will strengthen our social system and provide quality foster homes for orphaned children across the United States. 
   QUOTE
   ``Investing in children is not a national luxury or a national choice. It's a national necessity. If the foundation of your house is crumbling, you don't say you can't afford to fix it while you're building astronomically expensive fences to protect it from outside enemies. The issue is not are we going to pay--it's are we going to pay now, up front, or are we going to pay a whole lot more later on.'' Marian Wright Edelman 
   GENERAL 
   The fundamental purpose of adoption is to serve the best interests of children. It does so by providing loving, responsible, and legally permanent parents when their biological parents cannot or will not parent them. Serving the best interests of children should be paramount in deciding all issues of adoption policy and practice. Adoption is healthy, satisfying, and good for children, not an enduring challenge to identity and wholeness. People who are adopted as infants grow up as healthy and productive as people raised in their biological families. The vast majority of foster children make the transition into their adoptive families and grow up very successfully. 
   In the 1990s, there are approximately 120,000 adoptions of children each year. This number has remained fairly constant in the 1990s, and is still relatively proportionate to population size in the U.S. Adopted children do as well as or better than their non-adopted counterparts, according to a 1994 study by the Search Institute, a Minneapolis-based public policy research organization providing leadership, knowledge and resources to promote healthy children, youth and communities. As these statistics show adoption is a vital part of our society. The large number of families that took children into their homes and hearts do a great service for the children of our nation. 
   This bill will improve the compensation for foster parents and increase the amount of federal assistance they receive. These assistance stipulations include: 
   Federal reimbursement to States choosing to provide assistance to grandparents and other relatives who become legal foster parents. 
   Federal assistance for foster children up to the age of 21. 
   Improved health care for every foster child, including a plan for educational stability. 
   Federal Funding for training to cover private child welfare workers and court personnel. 
   An improved Adoption Incentives Program. 
   MINORITIES 
   There are currently 510,000 children in foster care, and 129,000 children are waiting to be adopted. 61 percent of these children waiting to be adopted are of a minority background. Within the Children's Services Division, 71 percent of the adoptions are of Caucasian children. This bill will ensure that parents and children involved with adoption will have ample resources available if needed. In turn, this will encourage domestic adoptions that will help every ethnicity of orphaned children throughout the United States. 
   CONCLUSION 
   I firmly believe that we must pass this legislation in order to support adoption in our country. Adoption benefits this entire country; as domestic children are provided with nourishing homes, that will enable them a more positive environment. This bill will allow foster parents and foster children the compensation and care that they deserve. 
   By passing this legislation, we will provide the necessary means for more adoptions to take place in this country where we are built on strong families and strong people. We must do what we can to assist those whose hearts are kind and ambitions are sincere. I urge my colleagues to support this; I know together we can provide the necessary support for the families and adopted children of the United States. Thank you, Madam Speaker, I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CELEBRATING 75 YEARS OF EFFECTIVE STATE-BASED ALCOHOL REGULATION -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 415, ``Celebrating 75 years of effective State-based alcohol regulation and recognizing State lawmakers, regulators, law enforcement officers, the public health community and industry members for creating a workable, legal, and successful system of alcoholic beverage regulation, distribution, and sale.'' 
   H. Con. Res. 415 celebrates a remarkable time in American history. It is worthy to remember how far the United States Government has come since its inception. With the ratification of the 21st Amendment, primary authority was delegated to the individual States, establishing the State-based regulatory system for alcohol distribution we still use today. The regulatory system has allowed each State to adopt individual laws that fit the beliefs of its citizens and still remains effective and in place today. 
   This State-based system created the safest and most responsible alcohol marketplace in the world. It not only protects consumers from tainted or counterfeit alcohol, but also provides transparency, accountability, and tremendous choice and value for American consumers for 75 years. 
   In 1919, following the passage of the 18th amendment, which prohibited ``the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors,'' the United States experienced a dramatic increase in illegal activity including unsafe black market alcohol production, a growth in organized crime and increasing noncompliance with alcohol laws. By the end of the decade, Gangster Al Capone controlled all 10,000 speakeasies in Chicago and ruled the bootlegging business from Canada to Florida. Numerous other crimes, including theft and murder, were directly linked to criminal activities in Chicago and elsewhere in violation of prohibition. 
   Many social problems have been attributed to the Prohibition era. A profitable and typically violent, black market for alcohol flourished during the Prohibition Era. Stronger liquor surged in popularity because its potency made it more profitable to smuggle. The cost of enforcing Prohibition was high, and the lack of tax revenues on alcohol (some $500 million annually nationwide) affected government coffers. 
   The 21st amendment is significant because when repeal of Prohibition occurred in 1933, organized crime lost nearly all of its black market alcohol profits in most States because of competition with low-priced alcohol sales at legal liquor stores. The post-Prohibition period saw the introduction of the American lager style of beer, which dominates today, such as Anheuser-Busch's Budweiser and Coors Brewing Company. Alcohol has been and still is a part of the American tradition. In my great State of Texas there are 75 breweries and eight of them are located in the city of Houston. 
   Let us celebrate the Cullen-Harrison Act which Franklin D. Roosevelt signed into law in 1933, which once again, legalized the sale of 3.2 percent beer, signaling the beginning of the end of the 13-year ``failed experiment'' known as Prohibition.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING LOWERING FLAG OVER CAPITOL TO HONOR MILITARY DEATHS -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand today in support of H. Con. Res. 61, ``Expressing the sense of the Congress that the United States flag flown over the United States Capitol should be lowered to half-mast one day each month in honor of the brave men and women from the United States who have lost their lives in military conflicts.'' The brave men and women who have sacrificed their lives to protect not only the lives of Americans but democracy around the world, warrant a day each month in which the Nation honors their service and sacrifice. 
   More than 1 million brave men and women from the United States have died in military conflicts since the birth of our great Nation. It is the right of the American people to mourn the loss of the brave men and women who have given their lives for this country. All Americans must remember that our freedom has not come without sacrifice. The heroic men and women who have given the ultimate sacrifice, to protect our Nation and our freedom must be honored and recognized. As Gertrude Stein put it so eloquently, ``Silent gratitude isn't very much use to anyone.'' 
   Paying tribute to the fearlessness and courageousness that the men and women from the United States have displayed throughout history, demonstrates the spirit of patriotism that is the foundation of our great country. 
   H. Con. Res. 61 must be supported by the Members of Congress in order for us and all Americans to pay homage and show our respect for those extraordinary soldiers who are no longer with us, but whose legacies should live on. In honoring those who have fought for our country from the time of its conception would be a grand opportunity to show the men and women wearing the uniform today that their service is not in vain. It is an opportunity for America to demonstrate the magnitude of appreciation that we hold in our hearts for the service and bravery of all our veterans. A simple gesture can demonstrate the immeasurable amount of gratitude which emanates through us all. 
   The State of Texas alone is home to approximately 1,707,365 veterans. H. Con. Res. 61 commemorates not only the valuable contribution of heroes past but to our present champions of freedom and democracy. I am reminded of something once said by author Melodie Beattie, ``Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough, and more. It turns denial into acceptance, chaos into order, confusion into clarity ..... it turns problems into gifts, failures into success, the unexpected into perfect timing, and mistakes into important events. Gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today and creates a vision for tomorrow.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPAND AND PRESERVE HOME OWNERSHIP THROUGH COUNSELING ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of of H.R. 3019, to expand and preserve home ownership through counseling, introduced by my colleague from Illinois, Representative Biggert. This important legislation will amend the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act to establish an Office of Housing Counseling which will conduct activities relating to homeownership and rental housing counseling. 
   GENERAL 
   When the crisis in the mortgage industry began, it primarily hit subprime borrowers. As the foreclosure crisis endured, home values started declining and eventually affected homeowners who are considered to be prime borrowers. This amendment to the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 will require a number of different stipulations that will encourage the expansion of home ownership with adequate information to make an informed decision. These stipulations include: 
   Directing the Office of the Secretary to establish, coordinate, and monitor Housing and Urban Development (HUD) administration of homeownership and rental housing counseling procedures provided in connection with any HUB program, including all related requirements, standards, and performance measures. 
   Requiring the Office of the Secretary to provide certification for various computer software programs for consumers to use in evaluating different residential mortgage loan proposals. 
   Encouraging the Director of Housing Counseling to develop, implement, and conduct national public service multimedia campaigns designed to make potential homeowners aware that counseling is available from unbiased and reliable sources. 
   Requiring the Secretary to provide technical and financial assistance to State governments, local governments, and non-profit organizations. 
   Directing the Secretary to study and report to Congress the root cause of default and foreclosure on homes. 
   Amending the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to revise requirements for HUD booklets designed to help consumers applying for federally related mortgage loans to understand the nature of real estate settlement services. 
   MINORITIES 
   Problematic, unaffordable subprime loans are more often issued to African-American and Latino homebuyers. Nationally, African-American home purchasers were 2.7 times more likely to be issued a high cost loan than white borrowers. Latinos were 2.3 times more likely to be issued a high cost home purchase loan than white borrowers. Similarly, for refinance loans, African-Americans were 1.8 times more likely to be issued a high cost loan than whites. Latinos were 1.4 times more likely to be burdened with a high refinance cost loan than white homeowners. 
   These racial disparities persist even among homeowners of the same income level. In comparative terms, upper-income African-Americans were 3.3 times more likely than upper-income whites to be issued a high cost loan when purchasing a home. Upper-income Latinos were 3 times more likely than upper-income whites to be issued a high cost loan when purchasing a home. 
   America's lower-income and minority communities receive a disproportionate number of subprime loans and are therefore most exposed to experience default and foreclosure. Based on public data for 2006 available under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), this report examines the extent of high-cost lending for 172 metropolitan areas, determines the disparities between borrowers of various races and income levels and identifies metropolitan areas that are at highest risk of facing concentrated foreclosures 
   CONCLUSION 
   I firmly believe that we must pass this legislation in order to create equal terms and equal information for every homeowner or potential homeowner in America. This legislation will ensure that information is equally available to all homebuyers and enable every person to have a fair chance to obtain the information necessary to make informed financial decisions. There is a disparity of information in our current mortgage system and H.R. 3019 will enable the Government to alleviate this disparity by improving the flow of information through house owner counseling. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3019 as well, as together we search for solutions that will help constituents throughout the United States.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE CHARLIE NORWOOD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF GEORGIA -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a great American and a member of this House. Charles Norwood was a veteran, dentist, small business owner, and Member of Congress from Georgia. 
   Congressman Norwood, who died on Wednesday, February 14, 2007, was a respected member of this body and respected by all who knew him. His presence will be greatly missed and we all mourn his loss and extend our sincerest condolences to his family and friends. 
   Charles Norwood was born July 27, 1941 in Valdosta, Georgia. ``Charlie'' as he was known, attended school in Valdosta throughout his first year of high school when his family moved to Tennessee, where he graduated in 1959 from Baylor Military High School in Chattanooga. He received his B.A. from Georgia Southern University in 1964 and a Doctorate in Dental Surgery from Georgetown University Dental School in 1967 where he was elected President of the Dental School Student Body during his senior year. 
   After completing dental school, Charlie Norwood enlisted in the United States Army, and was commissioned a Captain in the U.S. Army Dental Corps from 1967 to 1969. He was first assigned to the Army Dental Corps at Sandia Army Base in Albuquerque, New Mexico. In 1968, he was transferred to the Medical Battalion of the 173rd Airborne Brigade in Vietnam. 
   While in the Dental Corps, Charlie pioneered dental practices that became standard procedure after the Vietnam War. In addition to assisting the soldiers, he also provided some of the first field-based dental treatment of military guard dogs. For his distinguished service to our Nation, Charlie received the Combat Medical Badge and two Bronze Stars. He was discharged in 1969 after which, he entered the private practice of dentistry in Augusta, Georgia. For many years, ``Doc Norwood'' provided great service to all his patients.  
   In 1994, Charlie Norwood was elected to represent the Tenth Congressional District of Georgia in the historic 104th Congress. We were classmates because that same year I was elected to represent the citizens of the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas. Charlie represented his district so well that he was reelected by his constituents six times and always by substantial margins. 
   In Congress, Charlie Norwood was a strong proponent for health care reform. He introduced legislation calling for a Patient's Bill of Rights. He also championed more and better health care for veterans. In addition to his work in health care reform, Norwood introduced legislation and worked on various other public-policy issues. 
   Throughout his congressional career, Charlie Norwood served on the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Education and Workforce Committee. He was Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health from 2001 to 2004 and a member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee from 1997 to 2000. 
   Mr. Speaker, a dear colleague has fallen but he will not be forgotten. We are all saddened by our loss but we are happy to have served with him. Our prayers and condolences are with his family and loved ones. Charlie Norwood--Vietnam Veteran, dentist, small business owner, and Member of Congress--was a good representative, a good legislator, and a good man. He will be missed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SECOND CHANCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1593, the Second Chance Act of 2007. I would like to thank my dear colleague Mr. DANNY DAVIS  of Illinois for sponsoring this very important legislation that addresses the prison warehousing crisis in this country. H.R. 1593, a bill of which I am an original co-sponsor, addresses the very serious concerns about the compromised state of warehousing prisoners. 
   Earlier this year, the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of which I am a member, held hearings to address the state of certain conditions within the United States prison system. In one of those hearings, my colleagues and I considered the merits of The Second Chance Act, and my amendment which I offered in the last Congress was included in the base bill this year. 
   The Second Chance Act is designed to reduce recidivism, increase public safety, and help State and local governments better address the growing population of ex-offenders returning to their communities. The bill focuses on four areas: development and support of programs that provide alternatives to incarceration, expansion of the availability of substance abuse treatment, strengthening families and the expansion of comprehensive re-entry services. 
   Nearly two-thirds of released state prisoners are expected to be re-arrested for a felony or serious misdemeanor within 3 years of their release. Such high recidivism rates translate into thousands of new crimes each year and wasted taxpayer dollars, which can be averted through improved prisoner reentry efforts. 
   The ``Second Chance Act of 2007'' allocates funding towards a variety of reentry programs. One of the main components of the bill is the funding of demonstration projects that would provide ex-offenders with a coordinated continuum of housing, education, health, employment, and mentoring services. This broad array of services would provide stability 
   and make the transition for ex-offenders easier, in turn reducing recidivism. 
   Another reason why I strongly support this legislation is because it includes a provision contained in an amendment I offered during the Judiciary Committee markup of this bill in the 109th Congress. That amendment, incorporated in H.R. 1593 as Section 243 of the bill, requires that the: 
   Attorney General shall collect data and develop best practices of State corrections departments and child protection agencies relating to the communication and cordination between such State departments and agencies to ensure the safety and support of children of incarcerated parents, including those in foster care and kinship care, and the support of parent-child relationships between incarcerated, and formerly incarcerated, parents and their children, as appropriate to the health and well-being of the children. 
   My amendment provides for a systematic means of ensuring the safety and support of children of incarcerated parents and the support of children of release for non-violent offenders who have attained the age of at least 45 years of age, have never been convicted of a violent crime, have never escaped or attempted to escape from incarceration, and have not engaged in any violation, involving violent conduct, of institutional disciplinary regulations. 
   The Second Chance Act seeks to ensure that in affording offenders a second chance to turn around their lives and contribute to society, ex-offenders are not too old to take advantage of a second chance to redeem themselves. A second benefit of the legislation is that it would relieve some of the strain on Federal, State, and local government budgets by reducing considerably government expenditures on warehousing prisoners. 
   Mr. Speaker, some of those who are incarcerated face extremely long sentences, and this language would help to address this problem. Releasing rehabilitated, middle-aged, non-violent offenders from an already overcrowded prison population can be a win-win situation for society and the individual who, like the Jean Valjean made famous in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables, is redeemed by the grace of a second chance. The reentry of such individuals into the society will enable them to repay the community through community service and obtain or regain a sense of self-worth and accomplishment. It promises a reduction in burdens to the taxpayer, and an affirmation of the America value that no non-violent offender is beyond redemption.  
   Mr. Speaker, the number of Federal inmates has grown from just over 24,000 in 1980 to 173,739 in 2004. The cost to incarcerate these individuals has risen from $330 million to $4.6 billion since 2004. At a time when tight budgets have forced many States to consider the early release of hundreds of inmates to conserve tax revenue, early release is a common-sense option to raise capital. 
   The rate of incarceration and the length of sentence for first-time non-violent offenders have become extreme. Over the past two decades, no area of State government expenditures has increased as rapidly as prisons and jails. According to data collected by the Justice Department, the number of prisoners in America has more than tripled over the last two decades from 500,000 to 1.8 million, with States like California and Texas experiencing eightfold prison population increases during that time. Mr. Chairman, there are more people in the prisons of America than there are residents in States of Alaska, North Dakota, and Wyoming combined. 
   Over 1 million people have been warehoused for nonviolent, often petty crimes. The European Union, with a population of 370 million, has one-sixth the number of incarcerated persons as we do, and that includes violent and nonviolent offenders. This is one-third the number of prisoners which America, a country with 70 million fewer people, incarcerates for nonviolent offenses. 
   The 1.1 million nonviolent offenders we currently lock up represents 5 times the number of people held in India's entire prison system, even though its population is 4 times greater than the United States. 
   As the number of individuals incarcerated for nonviolent offenses has steadily risen, African-Americans and Latinos have comprised a growing percentage of the overall number incarcerated. In the 1930s, 75 percent of the people entering State and Federal prison were white (roughly reflecting the demographics of the Nation). Today, minority communities represent 70 percent of all new admissions and more than half of all Americans behind bars. 
   This is why for the last several years I have introduced the H.R. 261, the Federal Prison Bureau Nonviolent Offender Relief Act. H.R. 261 directs the Bureau of Prisons, pursuant to a good time policy, to release a prisoner who has served one-half or more of his or her term of imprisonment if that prisoner: (1) has attained age 45; (2) has never been convicted of a crime of violence; and (3) has not engaged in any violation, involving violent conduct, of institutional disciplinary regulations. 
   Over 2 million offenders are incarcerated in the nation's prisons and jails. At midyear 2002, 665,475 inmates were held in the Nation's local jails, up from 631,240 at midyear 2001. Projections indicate that the inmate population will unfortunately continue to rise over the years to come. 
   To illustrate the impact that The Second Chance Act will potentially have on Texas, the Federal prison population for the years 2000, 2001, and 2002 reached 39,679, 36,138 and 36,635 persons respectively; the State prison population for the same years reached 20,200, 20,898, and 23,561 persons. These numbers have grown since 2002, so the impact is indeed significant and the State of Texas is an important stakeholder. 
   I am also concerned about the rehabilitation and treatment of juvenile offenders in my home State of Texas as it appears that the administrators of TYC have neglected their duties. The April 10, 2007 ``Dallas Morning News'', reported that ``two former Texas Youth Commission administrators were indicted on charges that they sexually abused teenage inmates at the state juvenile prison in Pyote''. The same article also cited the 2005 investigative report by Texas Rangers' Sgt Burzynski which found that the two indicted TYC administrators, Brookins and Hernandez, had repeatedly molested inmates in the Pyote prison. The report is cited as saying that Mr. Brookins, who during some periods was the top official, had shown sex toys and pornography in his office, while Mr. Hernandez molested inmates in classrooms and closets. 
   I hope that all of my colleagues would join me in supporting the Second Chance Act. Passage of H.R. 1593 would be the start of a long overdue process to eliminate unnecessary costs that result from warehousing prisoners. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECT OUR CHILDREN ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3485, the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Florida, Representative WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. This important legislation will protect this Nation's most valuable resource, its children. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I have been an outspoken advocate for the protection of our children against all predators, be it disease, natural disasters, or sexual deviants. While we may not be able to avoid natural disasters, there is nothing but a lack of political will and Congressional action that prevents us from protecting our children from known sexual predators. I am appalled that while the Department of Justice knows the location of hundreds of thousands of sexual predators that prey on our Nation's children within the U.S. at this very moment, the Department of Justice has consistently refused to take action or ask Congress for help despite the fact that law enforcement is investigating less than 2 percent of this criminal activity. I applaud this important piece of legislation for the accountability it will create by building the largest law enforcement army ever created for the protection of children. 
   This issue is not one of obscenity or pornography but rather one of human rights and this Congress's dedication to protecting them. While surveillance by the Internet Crimes Against Children, ICAC, Data Network has provided the Department of Justice with the location of hundreds of thousands of sexual predators, far too little has been done. Child pornography must be considered an issue of human rights. These photos go beyond obscenity or pornography but rather must be acknowledged for what they are, ``crime scene photos, created by a thriving industry that uses children as sexual commodities.'' We must focus on the weapon of these predators, the internet, which has provided a multi-billion dollar network for child pornography and led to the additional exploitation of exponential amounts of children. 
   While the child exploitation industry is global in scale, the majority of both supply and demand is based right here, within the United  States. Due to the lack of attention to this issue by the Department of Justice, it is hard to quantify the number of child pornography traffickers that are involved in this gross violation of our children's rights; the best estimates are that this practice involves 485,000 perpetrators in the United States alone. A 2005 Justice Department study found that: 
   80 percent of child pornography possessors have images and videos depicting sexual penetration. 
   20 percent of child pornography possessors have images of bondage, sadistic abuse and torture. 
   83 percent of child pornography possessors have images of children aged 6-12. 
   19 percent of child pornography possessors have images of infants or toddlers. 
   Only 1 percent of child pornography possessors restricted their ``collecting'' to images of nude children. 
   Law enforcement reports of websites providing live ``pay-per-view'' rape of very young children. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must act now to protect our children from these atrocities and this legislation is an important first step in doing so. This bill will increase funding for state and local task forces by tripling the size of the Internet Crimes Against Children, ICAC, program in the first year alone, which will support the 46 state and local task forces that ``have become the backbone of America's war on child exploitation.'' It further adds hundreds of new Federal agents to the FBI, ICE, and U.S. Postal Inspection Service who will be charged with the sole responsibility of working on crimes against children. This legislation also provides for the creation of new dedicated forensic crimes labs for America's overwhelmed child exploitation investigators and provides legal structure and funding for the ICAC Data Network, which has emerged as a critical asset in the fight against child pornography and exploitation. Perhaps most significantly, it will create a new Justice Department Special Prosecutor, a new high-level office within the Department with sole dedication to combating child exploitation and the oversight of ICAC Task Force Network. 
   This legislation is imperative to ensuring the protection of our Nation's children and engaging in a much needed and long overdue national war on child pornography. As the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, a Representative of the people of the United States, and a mother of two, I am proud to cosponsor this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE NOVEMBER 6, 2007, TERRORIST BOMBING IN AFGHANISTAN -- (House of Representatives - November 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 811, Condemning the November 6, 2007, terrorist bombing in Afghanistan and expressing condolences to the people of Afghanistan and the members of the Wolesi Jirga, introduced by my distinguished colleague from North Carolina, Representative DAVID PRICE. As we all know, the situation in Afghanistan is critical, and it is essential that we maintain and strengthen our support of Afghanistan for the sake of the Afghan people and our own national security. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was almost exactly 6 years ago that, in response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the United States launched a military operation against Afghanistan, with the intent to capture Osama bin Laden, to destroy the al-Qaeda terrorist network, and to remove the Taliban regime that had provided support and safe harbor for al-Qaeda. Though the Taliban has been removed from power, they have since regrouped and are an increasingly resurgent force, while al-Qaeda remains a significant threat and Osama bin Laden continues to evade capture. 
   Meanwhile, Afghanistan continues to suffer from the chronic instability that has plagued the nation for much of its modern history. Its infrastructure and economy have been devastated by decades of conflict, the fledgling democratic government continues 
   to face a very real threat from the resurgent Taliban, and the people of Afghanistan continue to live in a climate of ongoing turmoil, particularly in the southern regions of the country, where there are ongoing and dangerous clashes between coalition-led forces and insurgents. 
   This most recent attack that occurred on November 6, 2007 was the deadliest suicide attack since the liberation of Afghanistan from the Taliban in 2001. This attack deliberately targeted the members of the Wolesi Jirga, the directly elected chamber of the National Assembly of Afghanistan, which transcended political, regional, and ethnic divisions within this war-torn nation. The suicide attack killed at least 6 members of the Wolesi Jirga as well as at least 50 Afghan citizens, including women and children, and wounded dozens of others. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is essential that we provide considerable aid for Afghanistan, a region which we have consistently underfunded despite its critical needs. While we have thrown away billions of taxpayers' dollars in Iraq, the real security threat of Afghanistan, home to the al-Qaeda and the Taliban, has gone relatively unchecked. This is a problem not simply for the United States to handle, but for NATO. We must work with our NATO allies to put increased pressure on them to step up to the task of addressing the most serious security issues. Security is essential to not only economic growth but also makes it easier for humanitarian organizations to accomplish their tasks. Creating a stable security situation in Afghanistan is an international concern. 
   Furthermore, trends of opium production in Afghanistan have changed. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), ``opium cultivation in Afghanistan is no longer associated with poverty.'' This is largely due to the fact that the poorer northern provinces are seeing a downward trend in poppy cultivation, while production and trafficking are growing in the eastern and southern provinces. As these are the areas of the, country currently experiencing the greatest amount of conflict, UNODC now associates the opiate trade with insurgency. According to UNODC, the Taliban have ``started to extract from 
   the drug economy resources for arms, logistics, and militia pay.'' This horrific attack may be directly linked to poppy cultivation and opium production, which has as of late been used to directly ``support, sustain, and finance insurgents, militias, and terrorist organizations operating in Afghanistan.'' 
   In the 110th Congress, we have already passed important legislation that, I believe, will help promote peace and freedom in Afghanistan. However, it is necessary for us to continue to work together with the Afghan government and other members of the international community to address the outstanding challenges that continue to threaten the nation. As stated in this legislation, the United States must reaffirm its long-term commitment to Afghanistan, ``to the establishment of security, the strengthening of democratic and civil institutions, and the promotion of economic opportunity as the basis for a stable, secure, and democratic Afghanistan. 
   The security and stability of Afghanistan is crucial to the current war on terror. The United States must strengthen and sustain its support of Afghanistan, we must continue in our commitment to this nation at this critical turning point. I am proud cosponsor of this legislation and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING THAT THE GREAT HALL OF THE CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER SHALL BE KNOWN AS EMANCIPATION HALL -- (House of Representatives - November 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3315, to provide that the great hall of the Capitol Visitor Center shall be known as Emancipation Hall, and to commend the Slave Laborers Task Force, led by Congressman John Lewis, and its important work. As the Task Force concluded, H.R. 3315 helps to fill an important gap in the history of the Capitol. It is a fitting, albeit overdue, tribute to the slaves--gifted carpenters, skilled stone masons, woodworkers, clay makers and other craftsmen--  who built the Capitol that the Capitol Visitor Center be renamed Emancipation Hall and celebrate the freeing of all Americans from bondage, oppression, and restraint. 
   The Capitol symbolizes our nation's core values of freedom and liberty and the basic rights of all humans. It symbolizes who we are as a nation. However, though countless visitors walk its halls each day, few know the important role slaves played in the construction of the Capitol. 
   Many slaves worked in quarries, extracting the stone used to construct this building. Others were used as carpenters. Women and children often molded clay in kilns. District of Columbia financial records show that hundreds of local residents received payment for the work of slaves, recorded in the ledger as ``Negro hire.'' In all, hundreds of slaves helped build the Capitol from the late 1700s until the mid-1800s. 
   Indeed, it was Philip Reid, a slave laborer who figured out how to take apart the plaster mold for the ``Freedom'' statue, which still crowns the dome, beneath which we toil, to allow it to be cast in bronze. What irony, what symbolism: Slaves built our monument to freedom; and the ``Freedom'' statue was cast in bronze by a man who was not free. 
   Today we have an opportunity to celebrate freedom; to make sure that every person who visits the Capitol knows that it is for preserving and protecting freedom that we, as Members of Congress, gather in this building and work every day; and that it is for liberty, democracy and freedom--emancipation--that our nation stands. 
   Emancipation Hall is an important reminder that the floors on which we walk, the walls that surround us and, yes, the ``Freedom'' statue atop the Capitol dome, were constructed in significant part by men and women who knew no liberty and were not free. We should never forget that.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SPOTTSWOOD W. ROBINSON III AND ROBERT R. MERHIGE, JR. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, allow me to rise for a brief moment to congratulate the Senators from Virginia and my good from friend and colleague on the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Scott, and, of course, the manager of this legislation and the minority manager as well. 
   No one who has benefited from the civil rights of the law, if you will, could ignore the contributions of Spottswood William Robinson III. So I rise today to again add my respect for the naming of this courthouse after these two jurists, both Robert Merhige and of course Spottswood W. Robinson III, but particularly want to add my appreciation to what Judge Robinson did for education in the lawsuit that was filed on behalf of 100 parents and 450 students at Moton High School in Prince Edward County, convinced that their only chance was getting this case before the Supreme Court. In addition, his work on the 1954 Brown versus Board of Education, the work of his efforts with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, he laid the pathway for those of us who are the beneficiaries of his great work. 
   Let me also suggest that the same with Robert Merhige and his work on civil rights issues but also dealing with major corporate litigation cases. 
   These namings sometimes are alluded to as not being very important, but as we proceed on many important issues such as solving the energy crisis, I'm glad, Mr. Speaker, that we stop for a moment to give honor to individuals who laid the groundwork not only for me and those like me but really for America, and those who stand on the floor of the House that value democracy and equal opportunity, these individuals are deserving of the respect and admiration of this United States Congress and certainly are deserving of the naming of the courthouse after them.  
   I rise today in support of S. 2403, which designates the new Federal courthouse in Richmond, Virginia as the ``Spottswood W. Robinson III and Robert R. Merhige, Jr., Federal Courthouse.'' I want to thank Senator Warner and the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure, and Senator WEBB, for remembering a great educator, civil rights attorney, and judge, along with U.S. Representative BOBBY SCOTT of Virginia who has championed this legislation. 
   BACKGROUND
   Spottswood William Robinson III  
   Spottswood William Robinson III, was born in Richmond, Virginia, on July 26, 1916. He attended Virginia Union University and then attended Howard University School of Law, graduating first in his class in 1939. 
   Like his fellow jurist, Thurgood Marshall, he often credited the law school with instilling in its students the notion of social responsibility. He said, ``one of the things that was drilled into my head was ..... `This legal education that you're getting is not just for you, it was for everybody. So when you leave here, you want to put it to good use.' '' 
   Spottswood Robinson argued one of the Supreme Court cases that led to the 1954 decision striking down school segregation. In early 1951, Robinson, who would later become a Federal judge, and his law partner in Richmond had no plans to attack school segregation in Virginia as unconstitutional. They were more focused on forcing local school systems to invest more in segregated black schools. 
   But that was before Barbara Johns, a high school junior, called their law office in April. She complained that nothing at her school--buses, textbooks, facilities--even approached the quality of those provided at White schools. 
   Robinson and his then-law partner Oliver Hill filed suit on behalf of 100 parents of 450 students at Moton High School in Prince Edward County, Va., convinced that their only chance lay in getting the case before the U.S. Supreme Court. 
   The issues in that case and four others--including Brown vs. Board of Education--were decided in the high court's historic 1954 Brown decision declaring ``separate but equal'' schools unconstitutional. 
   Former Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder wrote in a tribute to Robinson that, ``Where one can ride on a bus, a train, or plane, or where one can live and rent or buy a house, or whether public education has to be given the same level to all people are basic 
   Issues. Spottswood Robinson has been there ..... in his quiet, unassuming ..... way, charting and paving a path for countless Americans ..... who owe to him a great debt of gratitude.'' 
   Judge Robinson was a faculty member of the Howard University School of Law from his graduation in 1939 until 1947. Judge Robinson was one of the core attorneys of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund from 1948 to 1960. Through the NAACP LDF Robinson worked on important civil rights cases including Brown v. Board of Education and Chance v. Lambeth, 4th Cir., 1951, establishing the invalidity of carrier-enforced racial segregation in interstate transportation. 
   From 1960-64 Spottswood Robinson became Dean of the Howard University School of Law. He then served as a member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights from 1961 to 1963. 
   In 1964, Judge Robinson was the first African-American to be appointed the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In 1966, Judge Robinson became the first African-American appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit when he was appointed by President Johnson. 
   On May 7, 1981, Judge Robinson became the first African-American to serve as Chief Judge of the court. Judge Robinson took senior status in 1989 and later retired. He passed on in 1998. Leaving behind a legacy of civil rights leadership and legal advocacy. 
   Robert R. Merhige, Jr.  
   Robert R. Merhige Jr., was the U.S. District Court judge who ordered Virginia schools desegregated and presided over major corporate litigation cases. His unusually long tenure on the Federal bench--31 years--brought him many cases of national importance. He wrote the decision for a three-judge panel that threw out the appeals of Watergate figures G. Gordon Liddy, Bernard Barker, and Eugenio Martinez, after they were convicted of breaking into the office of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. 
   He ordered the University of Virginia to admit women in 1970. He clarified the rights of pregnant women to keep their jobs. He presided over the trials of Ku Klux Klan and American Nazi Party members accused of injuring and killing members of the Communist Workers Party in Greensboro, NC, in 1979. 
   No decision made him more unpopular than his orders to integrate dozens of Virginia's school systems. He was widely considered the most hated man in Richmond in the early 1970s and required 24-hour protection by U.S. marshals. Segregationists threatened his family, spat in his face, and shot his dog to death after tying its legs. Protesters held weekly parades outside his home. A guest cottage on his property, where his mother-in-law lived, was burned to the ground. 
   Not long ago he told the Richmond Times-Dispatch that he was still amazed, disappointed and angry at the public reaction to his rulings. He was known for his kindness and integrity and for brooking no delays or foolishness in his court, part of the Eastern District of Virginia known as the ``rocket docket.'' He once ordered a marshal to remove a man who had fallen asleep in the courtroom. The man, it turned out, was his father. 
   Born in New York, Mr. Merhige attended High Point College in North Carolina and received his law degree from the University of Richmond's T.C. Williams School of Law in 1942. 
   He served in the Army Air Forces in World War II as a crewman on a B-17 bomber based in Italy. Mr. Merhige practiced law in Richmond from 1945 until he was appointed to the Federal bench in 1967 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. 
   Two weeks into his job, the new judge drew the first of the controversial cases that became the hallmark of his career. He ordered the release of African-American activist H. Rap Brown, who was imprisoned in Virginia after making an impassioned and militant speech in Maryland. 
   In 1968, Mr. Merhige ruled that the conflict in Vietnam was a war, whether or not it was a declared war. That ruling came in a case in which 96 Army reservists tried to avoid serving in Vietnam. Mr. Merhige denied their request. 
   On a tour of his memorabilia-filled chambers two decades later, a reporter noted that among signed photographs, which ranged from former FBI director J. Edgar Hoover to former attorney general Ramsey Clark, a copy  of President Richard M. Nixon's resignation adorned the mantelpiece. ``I wanted that since the day he was inaugurated,'' Mr. Merhige was quoted as saying.  
   Conclusion  
   Mr. Speaker, Judge Robinson and Judge Merhige were men who stood their ground, followed their conscience and the law. I am pleased to see the good State of Virginia--known as the Capitol of the South--recognizing two men who sought to change it--for the better. 
   I urge my colleagues to support S. 2403, and the new Federal courthouse that celebrates these two great civil rights advocates. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE WORKING CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to return to the most do-something Congress in the last 8 years, the Congress that has addressed the plight of soldiers and education benefits and health care, and the Congress that is going to solve the energy crisis: The working Congress.  
   That's why I stand here today because I would like us to continue to work to help the automobile dealers in Detroit, and as well to help those homeowners who need mortgage repair and mortgage refinance, and give them an opportunity for the American Dream. 
   I am saddened by the conflict between Georgia and Russia, not Georgia in the United States, but I believe that is a NATO issue. And I would ask that we not give $1 billion for repairing Georgia; we need to give $1 billion to help repair our auto industry and to help those in mortgage crisis. Yes, we can be a partner in their rebuild, we believe in their democracy, but it is time now to reinvest in home. Give them a contribution, along with the NATO efforts. Give them the ability to stand strong. Provide for them the opportunity to engage in conflict resolution between Russia and Georgia. But it is time now not to give excessive funds to ensure that they stand up, we need to stand up here in America. 
   I ask my colleagues to reflect on this so that we can rebuild America in this do-something Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I feel like family has gathered here on the floor, and I thank my good and distinguished friend. We are like family. And his mother, and as he has come here, and the extended family relationship. 
   And so, even as I spoke on the bereavement resolution, I wanted to come and be part of the Congressional Black Caucus special order because I could feel the warmth and spirit just continue to flow through. And I hope the Congressional Record doesn't mind us talking about spirit flowing through. 
   I want to acknowledge her staff that is staying here till the end that are in the gallery there, and they are like family as well. And we know that Stephanie would say she loved her staff, both in Washington and in Cleveland. 
   Certainly, I think the most poignant moment of the going home service was my friend and brother, the Honorable Kendrick Meek, and Congressman Ryan, having stood together, stoically, strongly, and specially to talk about Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones and, as well, as they did so, you could feel in that huge, huge Cleveland Convention Center, everyone just pouring love toward them. And I think it drew Mervyn, her son, out of his seat to go up on the stage and to see the most powerful embrace that one could ever see. It will be lasting. I think it will go down in the annals of her record, when you pull her up and you look at this celebration, this homegoing service, you will note that there was this kind of experience, this moving experience. And I want to thank my distinguished Member of Congress from Florida, Congressman Meek, for just pouring his heart out during that service. I think all of us just paused for a moment to see the largeness and the bigness of our relationship with Stephanie. 
   So I wanted to come because I didn't get a chance to just mention more extensively, someone who allowed you to know most of her family members during her time here in Congress. And the goodness is, I think we should celebrate that her family members lived, her mom and dad lived to see her become a Member of Congress. Her husband, of which, someone mentioned they had celebrated 25 years together or more, lived to see her in the United States Congress and enjoyed being part of her commitment to the Congressional Black Caucus, with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. They were a couple. They were a pair. 
   In fact, I am envious and dream of the fact that I used to hear the stories about the yachting that they did together as a couple, and always said one day I would have the time to go. But just to think about how she used her life experiences of joy and large living to touch everyone's life. 
   When we talked about airlines, when we talked about the troubles airlines were having, I remember her talking after 9/11. She would always get in there that her dad was a skycap. When they were talking about salaries or talking about working conditions at the airlines, she had an affinity because she would get in there that her dad was a skycap, and she was proud of that. 
   And I want everybody to know, since we live in this kind of multi-cultural society, that being a skycap was a big, big deal for an African American and an African American man. It was a  middle class, it was a working job that had benefits, but it was an important responsibility. I know that because my uncle was a skycap. So that was an important, if you will, connection for her dad who supported this family. 
   And of course, her mom and her sisters, and the sister who I had a chance, as Congressman Meek mentioned, I had a chance to visit Barbara and Mervyn when I went to visit them at home. 
   There were friends, and I know that I will get in trouble, but I know that the Mayor of Warrensville I believe is the name, Mayor Fudge, a dear friend and a part of the Delta family. But I know the guy that she calls Joe Hewitt; never a single name, just calling him Joe Hewitt, larger than life, someone that she cared about; he cared about her. We had a chance to fellowship with their family. 
   So I wanted to just come and say that, as we talk about sisterhood, it is really real. And as we talk about traveling with her, it is really real. As we talk about being larger than life, it is really real as well. 
   And I want to close simply by just adding to what my good friend, Marcy Kaptur from Cleveland said, as I looked at the three Congresspersons, one from Maryland, California and New York, three beautiful young women. And we lost Congresswoman Julia Carson, Juanita Millender-McDonald, and now Stephanie Tubbs Jones, all mentors. And look at the legacy that they have left. 
   Look at the legacy of Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who I call a great patriot, a great American, because she could fight you for her love for America. She would not take a back seat. Whether or not she was talking about predatory lending or whether she was talking about health care that did not occur in her community around the Nation, or those incarcerated persons who were treated unfairly and didn't get a second chance, she still loved America. 
   So I want to leave us with the words of Sojourner Truth. And it was when she was sitting in the back of the room, and it was during the abolitionist movement, suffragette movement. And it was crowded, and she saw they saw her hand raise up, and the person called on sir, or indicated that she was a man. And Sojourner Truth stood up and said, ain't I a woman? I born 13 children into slavery. Ain't I a woman? 
   To Stephanie Tubbs Jones, there will be no doubt that she was a woman's woman and a leader's leader. 
   And finally, in closing, if I can read from Philippians Chapter 4, verse 8: Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things.'' 
   Let us think on the life of Stephanie Tubbs Jones, and let us, in all of our imperfections, and we have them, embellish those things in ourselves. And as the Congressional Black Caucus, let us live on, and the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, of which my distinguished colleague is the Chair, let her spirit live on as we do her work and do the work of the Lord.  
   I rise today with a conflict of emotions to recognize Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES. I stand with a heavy heart enriched and gladdened that I had the opportunity of knowing and working with such a beacon of light here in Congress. 
   Before heading to the funeral I was reminded of the words of, Mother Teresa, ``There is a light in this world, a healing spirit--more powerful than any darkness we may encounter. We sometimes lose sight of this force, when there is suffering, and too much pain. Then suddenly, the spirit will emerge through the lives of ordinary people who hear a call and answer in extraordinary ways.'' 
   That is why although I rise with a heavy heart at the loss of a colleague and friend, I stand with a realization and gratefulness for all that Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES was able to do for her family, for her constituents, and for her country in her brief time here on this earth. I also believe that Congresswoman TUBBS JONES is in a better place and is looking down on us with that contagious smile and generous nature that made us all love working with her. 
   As Women's Caucus and Congressional Black Caucus members, the Congresswoman and I spent a lot of time working together and talking about our lives, our unique work, and the issues facing our nation. 
   HISTORY 
   I had the opportunity to get to know this great woman and learn that she was born in Cleveland, Ohio, where she graduated from the city's public schools, later earning degrees from Case Western Reserve University, the Flora Stone Mather College, and Case Western Reserve University School of Law. 
   I knew that she was a proud member of Delta Sigma Theta; and even more proud to have been married to the love of her life, Mervyn L. Jones, Sr., for over 27 years until his passing in 2003. Together she and Mervyn had one son; Mervyn Leroy Jones, Jr., who was the light of her life. 
   Like me, STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES was a lawyer who had been a local judge. She served on the Cleveland Municipal Court in 1981, and later on the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County before becoming the Representative for the 11th District of Ohio. 
   She was selected to be the Chairwoman of the House Ethics Committee to watch over the standards of ethical conduct for members of the House. She also served on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee where she fought for economic development and financial opportunities for all. She was loved by her district, and was routinely reelected against nominal opposition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF OHIO -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you very much. 
   This is such a wonderful story that I'm listening to as we honor Stephanie Tubbs Jones, so I'm going to speak on some issues that showed her in her fullness and in her love of life.     
   And that was as a House basketball coach. She was that woman with a smile. She was a Good Samaritan. She was also like Ruth; if she was your friend, she was going to stick with you. She loved life, loved her family. How wonderful it was to be part of her family. And she allowed this Congress to be part of her family because everyone knew Mervyn, her husband; her son; her sisters; her mother and father, who I got a chance to know. But yet when she got on that basketball court and she was the coach, I tell you that was a winning smile, a winning coach, and a winning team. 
   And there was nothing more exciting than being at the 2008 House basketball team game. This was a game for charity. But you couldn't tell Coach Stephanie Tubbs Jones that she was out there for charity. She was out there to win, and I think it was the NBA championship, for she ran up and down that court. She gave the best coaching. She told the guys, who happened to be Members of Congress and others, what they could and could not do. And even though she wasn't the referee and she wasn't the penalizer, she'd penalize her team. 
   And what an exciting time to see in this year's 2008 winning basketball effort, Mervyn, her son, make the winning basketball shot. It was so exciting that those of us that were in the stands ran out onto the court, of course in violation, but we were able to get away with that. And I was so excited, in my short stature of 52 1/2 , I asked the greatest coach that I knew that I work with her next year, and she gave me the greatest honor and said ``yes.'' That was Stephanie Tubbs Jones, the lover of life. 
   But yet as a prosecutor, one would think she would be hard nosed and she'd be running toward prosecution and incarceration. But she teamed up with her dear friend Danny Davis, and they shed their light all around this campus, both the House and the Senate, to work on what we call the Second Chance bill. 
   So I rise today on behalf of the incarcerated whom Stephanie loved whom she gave an opportunity, through her work with Danny Davis and those who cosponsored this legislation, to say to these individuals they could have a second chance. 
   May God allow her to rest in peace, but may her star shine continuously through us. We love her and we love her family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ADDRESSING WAIVER OF ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation enacts a new Federal Rule of Evidence, proposed by the Judicial Conference, to address a growing problem that is adding inordinate and unnecessary burden, expense, uncertainty, and inefficiency to litigation. 
   The new rule 502 reaffirms and reinforces the attorney-client privilege and work product protection by clarifying how they are affected by, and withstand, inadvertent disclosure in discovery. 
   As the author of the companion bill, H.R. 6610, in the House, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Senate-passed bill so that we can send it to the President and enact it into law without further delay. 
   Doing the research on this legislation and spending time with a number of lawyers, and the American Bar Association, Mr. Speaker, I can assure you that this has no negative impact on those lawyers representing defendants or those lawyers representing plaintiffs. In fact, unlike the courthouse and the courtroom, plaintiff lawyers and defendant lawyers, the plaintiff bar and the defendant bar, have come together in a unanimous voice, indicating that this will in fact enhance their ability to represent their clients and to ensure that they may have the broadest based discovery possible. 
   We have asked and answered a series of questions that impact this particular legislation, including engaging the Federal bench. And so I move that  my colleagues view this enthusiastically and that it be supported. 
   The attorney-client privilege and work product protection are crucial to our legal system. They encourage businesses and individuals to obtain legal counsel when appropriate by protecting the confidentiality of communications between clients and their attorneys, and documents prepared by attorneys to assist their clients in litigation. In fact, this is the backbone, the infrastructure of civil and criminal litigation. 
   These legal protections are not absolute, however. Traditionally, persons seeking to rely on them must maintain the confidentiality of the information involved. If the information is shared outside the circle of confidentiality provided by the law, the legal protection is forfeited, or waived, as the purpose for it no longer applies. 
   This traditional principle can work unfair results in modern-day litigation when privileged information is disclosed by accident. Fast-moving litigation or expensive and vast litigation has both plaintiff and defendant shooting back and forth various documents, particularly in extensive discovery. In the course of the kind of voluminous discovery that often takes place, this can happen, where a privileged document is seen by the other party. 
   When vast amounts of documents are transmitted and stored electronically and can be searched and collected in the same manner, it is all too easy for a document containing privileged information to be overlooked, despite careful efforts to prevent it. Even in my practice of some years ago, the technology has made it different. I remember being in a massive case, a personal injury case, where documents were going back and forth, but I might say, Mr. Speaker, that it moved a lot slower than it does today. 
   Unfortunately, the case law has not kept up with these developments of expedited discovery and the electronic use of passing documents. Outdated legal precedents from an earlier era continue to create uncertainty. There are precedents, for example, holding that an inadvertent disclosure of a single document or communication not only can waive the privilege as to that one item, but can result in a blanket waiver as to all information concerning the same subject. That can collapse a case. 
   Concern about the potential adverse consequences has in recent years forced clients and their lawyers to undertake exhaustive, time-consuming, and expensive examination of documents item by item, often page by page, before they can be comfortable turning them over in discovery. That impacts, of course, negatively plaintiffs and defendants. 
   The document reviews can be grossly disproportionate in cost to the stakes of the underlying litigation and significantly impede the efficient processing of cases through the courts. 
   Courts have developed a balance rule in the case law that appropriately protects confidentiality, while guarding against abuses. But one court's order and one district's order and one circuit's order has uncertain authority, at best, in another court. Only a uniform rule can bring the certainty needed, and a uniform rule in the area of evidentiary privileges can only be achieved by an act of Congress. 
   The rule we are submitting today, submitted to Congress last year by the Judicial Conference, is a product of careful deliberations in its Advisory Committee on Evidence Rules, informed by years of examination of the issue in its Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
   The Advisory Committee enlisted the help of eminent jurists, practitioners, and legal scholars, and sought and obtained extensive public comment both in written submissions and at two hearings. The rule that resulted has wide support in the legal community. I know, Mr. Speaker. I have spent time, my staff has spent time with lawyers on both sides of the bar, and I can assure you their voices were one in arguing for the passage of this change. 
   In order to more fully explain how the new rule is to be interpreted and applied, the Advisory Committee also prepared an explanatory note, as is customary, for publication alongside the text of the rule. The text of the explanatory note appears in the Record in the Senate debate. 
   The proposed rule has now also undergone careful review in the House, as well as the Senate. During its consideration in the House Judiciary Committee, a number of questions arose regarding the scope and contours of the effect of the proposed rule on current law regarding attorney-client privilege and work product protection. That is a very important and cherished right, to ensure that privilege does not interfere or hamper the rights of a plaintiff, sometimes the underdog, and the defendant. 
   The Judicial Conference was able to answer all these questions satisfactorily, without need to revise the text of the rule as submitted to Congress. In order to further reduce any potential uncertainty regarding how the rule is to be interpreted and applied, the committee has asked and the Judicial Conference has agreed to augment the explanatory note. I would like to insert the agreed addendum to the explanatory note in the Record at this point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ADDRESSING WAIVER OF ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his  very kind remarks about the bipartisan negotiations at the level of the House Judiciary Committee. I was delighted again to also have the companion bill, H.R. 6610, on that legislation. 
   I do want to add a particular point of contention dealing with subdivision E, party agreements. This subdivision simply makes clear that while parties to a case may agree among themselves regarding the effect of disclosures between each other in a Federal proceeding, it is not binding on others unless it is incorporated into a court order. 
   I think this is very important, and it was certainly a point that others, various counsel raised, because of the impact that it might have, the far-reaching impact it might have. This particular subdivision does not confer any authority on a court to enter any order regarding the effect of the disclosures. That authority must be found in subdivision D or elsewhere. So we see that this rule has been meticulously refined in order to ensure that the sanctity of the attorney-client privilege is preserved. 
   This is good legislation, and I would ask my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back my time, asking for support of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILD SOLDIERS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the Senate bill (S. 2135) to prohibit the recruitment or use of child soldiers, to designate persons who recruit or use child soldiers as inadmissible aliens, to allow the deportation of persons who recruit or use child soldiers, and for other purposes, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the Senate bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILD SOLDIERS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me note what a tragedy it is that we have to stand on the floor of the House in 2008 to speak about the exploitation of children as soldiers. Up to 250,000 children are exploited each day around the world in state-run armies, paramilitaries and guerilla groups. These child soldiers, boys and girls as young as 8 years old, are forced to serve as combatants and human mine detectors. They are often used to conduct suicide missions, and many are used as sex slaves. In fact, we have seen many of them turn themselves in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Colombia. In many cases they are provided with drugs and alcohol to numb them to the atrocities they are required to commit. In all cases, their childhoods are taken from them, their health and lives are endangered, and their psyches are destroyed. 
   It is a war crime under customary international law to recruit or use children under 15 years of age as soldiers.  
   I am reminded of an early amendment when I first came to the United States Congress that I added to an appropriations bill that we should restrain the use of appropriations foreign aid for those countries that would not commit to releasing their child soldiers. It is an ongoing and persistent problem. 
   It is a violation of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which 110 countries, including the U.S., have ratified, to recruit or use child soldiers under the age of 18. But such actions do not currently violate U.S. criminal or immigration law. We are thus hindered in our ability to prevent those who use or recruit child soldiers from coming to our country, and we are unable to punish those perpetrators who make it here. In contrast, other grave human rights violations, including torture, are punishable under U.S. criminal and immigration law. 
   The Child Soldier Accountability Act of 2008 would correct this disparity by making it a Federal crime and violation of immigration laws to recruit or use child soldiers under the age of 15. 
   This bipartisan legislation was sponsored in the Senate by Senators Dick Durbin and Tom Coburn, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Human Rights and the Law. They worked together on this bill to ensure that war criminals who would exploit children cannot find safe haven in our country. 
   The bill we vote on today is slightly changed from the bill that was sent to us by the Senate. It now includes changes agreed to in bipartisan and bicameral discussions between Senators Durbin, Coburn, Jon Kyl and Jeff Sessions, as well as numerous House Members, including Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers and Ranking Member Lamar Smith, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Bobby Scott and Ranking Member Louie Gohmert, and Immigration Subcommittee Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren and Ranking Member Steve King. 
   The United States must hold accountable the war criminals who steal the childhood of innocents by turning them into killers or human fodder. I thus urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The recognition of the service of contractors such as Blackwater is a bipartisan recognition. For those of us who have traveled to Afghanistan and Iraq and a number of places around the world, we recognize the importance of contractors. So this is not an indictment overall of those who serve as asked by the United States of America. It is an indictment of the Department of Defense in the way these contracts are issued. It is an indictment of the incident that allegedly occurred where those Blackwater employees opened fire, killing 11 civilians, and each of the four vehicles opened their windows and began to blast at what appeared to be innocent civilians, even killing a little boy. 
   Yes, it did seem like hell. But, frankly, we do understand that their role is important. This legislation is fair. It has the parameters of helping companies like Blackwater to have order in the midst of, sometimes, disorder. 
   The legislation requires a report by the DOJ Inspector on Contractor Abuses Overseas and also requires the Inspector General of the Justice Department to submit a report to Congress. We should not be left out. We should be aware of what is going on, primarily because the actions of contractors impact not only the soldiers left behind, who then have to clean up what they have done, but also the diplomacy of the United States of America. 
   There is simply no excuse for the de facto legal immunity that our government has permitted for tens of thousands of armed private individuals working on our country's behalf in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our soldiers are court-martialed, and our soldiers are sometimes the unpleasant beneficiaries of the actions of U.S. contractors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMPROVING GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 298, the Improving Government Accountability Act. I would like to thank my colleague, Congressman COOPER, for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Congressman WAXMAN, for his leadership in bringing this important issue to the floor. 
   Mr. Chairman, Inspectors General play a vital role for the U.S. taxpayer. Their work is crucial in preventing and detecting waste, fraud, and abuse in federal programs. In 2006 alone, audits by Inspector General offices resulted in potential savings from audit recommendations of $9.9 billion and criminal recoveries of $6.8 billion. However, in order to effectively carry out their mission, Inspectors General must be independent and objective, which requires that they be insulated from improper management and political pressure. 
   The legislation we have before us today contains a number of important provisions designed to enhance the effectiveness and independence of Inspectors General, as well as provisions to enhance the accountability of the entire Inspector General system. It updates the Inspector General Act of 1978 to promote independence and accountability for Inspectors General in executive branch departments and agencies. 
   Mr. Chairman, there are many badly needed reforms to the Inspector General system that this legislation directly addresses. It defines the terms of office for Inspector Generals as fixed seven-year terms, helping to insulate Inspectors General from political retribution. It goes on to enumerate conditions for removal of Inspectors General, who currently serve at the pleasure of their appointing authorities, allowing for their termination before the end of their terms only for serious cause, such as malfeasance, permanent disability, inefficiency, neglect of duty, or conviction of a felony. Both of these provisions will go a long way in enhancing the ability of Inspectors General to remain politically independent. 
   In addition, this legislation requires Inspectors General to submit their budgets to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress. This provision is intended to deter officials in their respective agencies from slashing their funding in retaliation for unfavorable audits, further enhancing the independence of Inspectors General. 
   Mr. Chairman, recently, concerns have been raised about possible misconduct by certain Inspectors General. This legislation, therefore, includes provisions to raise the level of accountability of the Inspectors General system. To cite a recent example, last week seven current and former members of the State Department's Inspector General office alleged that Inspector General Howard Krongard repeatedly thwarted investigations into alleged contact fraud in Iraq and Afghanistan, including refusing to send investigators to Iraq and Afghanistan to investigate $3 billion worth of State Department contracts. These employees allege that Krongard's partisan political ties have led him to thwart these investigations in order to protect the Bush Administration from political embarrassment. 
   Mr., Chairman, as you are well aware, these are extremely serious accusations that go deep into the heart of our Inspector General system. If those we are entrusting to remain independent and objective are instead being swayed by political ties, then our Inspector General system is broken. In the wake of the recent Baghdad shootout involving U.S. contractors from the private firm Blackwater USA, in which 17 people were killed and 24 were injured, it is imperative that all agencies sending contractors to Iraq and Afghanistan be able to maintain sufficient oversight of these contracts. If Inspectors General cannot do their job because of political pressure or affiliation, it is our responsibility to fix the Inspector General system. 
   To do so, this bill contains provisions to hold Inspectors General themselves accountable for their decisions and actions. It also provides a mechanism for investigating and resolving allegations of misconduct by Inspectors General. The bill creates an Inspectors General Council and requires the Council to appoint an Integrity Committee, chaired by the Council's FBI representative. This Integrity Committee shall investigate any allegations of wrongdoing made against Inspectors General or their senior staff members and report substantiated allegations to the executive branch. Reports of Integrity Committee investigations must be submitted to both the Executive Chairperson of the Council and to Congress. 
   Mr. Chairman, we rely on the system of Inspectors General, and on the individuals who serve in this capacity, to serve as the principal watchdogs of the nation's major federal agencies. In 2006 alone, audits by Inspector General offices resulted in potential savings from audit recommendations of $9.9 billion and criminal recoveries of $6.8 billion. To effectively carry out this crucial mission, it is imperative that Inspectors General remain independent and objective, which in turn requires that they be insulated from improper management and political pressure. 
   This legislation is a crucial step forward. By enhancing the independence of the Inspectors General and improving the accountability of the Inspector General system overall, this legislation will have a positive impact on the integrity and accountability of our government. I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LIBERIA DESIGNATION EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me thank the gentlelady from California (Ms. Zoe Lofgren) for her leadership on the Judiciary Committee as a member of the Judiciary Committee and cosponsor of this legislation. 
   Might I add my appreciation to Mr. Kennedy for his leadership and the bipartisanship of this bill. 
   I pay tribute also to the Liberian community in Houston, Texas, and ask my colleagues to recognize the long history of suffering that Liberians experienced under the presidency of Charles Taylor. The horrific and heinous crimes, the mutilation of young children, the using of child soldiers all speak to the importance and the crucialness of extending the temporary protective status for these who are here in this country who fled because of political persecution and fled because of the atrocities that they would experience. 
   This is a temporary protective status of individuals who have been in this country working, paying taxes, and raising their children. We've experienced this over the years of the past administration, looking to try to find some way to provide permanent status for these refugees who have fled persecution. We have not done that yet. However, this is a very good step to recognize their contributions to the United States. 
   I hope that my colleagues, in reflection of the atrocities that Liberia experienced, will recognize that there is a very, very difficult pathway for them to return back to Liberia. 
   I do, however, want to applaud the leadership of the new president of Liberia and to recognize the work that she has done. But she, too, has admitted that they are making steps, step by step, and the importance of providing the sanctity and safety of the individuals here in the United States is crucial. 
   I rise to support H.R. 3123, and would ask my colleagues to support it. 
   And again, I salute the Liberian community for the suffering but yet the contributions they've made to the United States  
   Madam Speaker, I am honored to rise in support of H.R. 3123, which addresses the plight of displaced Liberian nationals, a group of people that is of great regional and global importance. H.R. 3123 recognizes the importance of extending the designation of Liberia under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. I thank the gentleman from Rhode Island, Mr. KENNEDY, for excellent work in bringing this legislation forward. 
   H.R. 3123 extends the designation of Liberian refuges under section 244(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act through September 30, 2008 and expands the designation of Liberia under the Immigration and Nationality Act as a country whose nationals are eligible for temporary protected status and work authorization in the United States. In addition, H.R. 3123 sets forth eligibility requirements for Liberian nationals or persons having no nationality whose last habitual residence was Liberia. 
   Madam Speaker, let us remember that from 1989 to 1996 the Liberian civil war claimed the lives of more than 200,000 Liberians and further displaced a million others into refugee camps in neighboring and distant countries, including our own. The United States and other countries have provided relief to Liberians. By supporting this bill we can show our affection and commitment to people of Liberia. 
   The United States has a historical connection to all Liberians, but we also have a moral responsibility to end the killings and mass displacement of innocent citizens. The termination of TPS designation of Liberia would place many Liberians that fled to our country for refuge at risk of being returned prematurely. 
   Madam Speaker, the elimination of TPS designation means that on October 2, 2007, former TPS beneficiaries will return to the same immigration status they maintained before registering for TPS, or to any other status they may have acquired while registered for Temporary Protection Status. Accordingly, if an individual did not have lawful immigration status at the time of receiving TPS benefits, and did not obtain any other status during the TPS designation period, he or she will revert to being without lawful status. Such individuals are expected to depart the United States on or before October 1, 2007. Those who do not comply with this requirement may be subject to removal. 
   The Liberian people living in our country deserve better treatment and protection than the current Immigration and Nationality Act can afford. Congress needs to permit the extension of section 244 which enables the people to re-register for temporary protection status and work authorization. 
   Let us give the Liberian people the respect and protection they need by supporting H.R. 3123.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 2750) to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
   The text of the bill is as follows  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Allow me, first of all, to acknowledge the chairperson of the Financial Services Committee as I rise in strong support of H.R. 2750, the NASA 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act. Chairman Frank has been an outstanding leader of his committee and has been very gracious in the formulating and finalizing of this legislation. I thank him again. I thank his staff and, of course, the staff of the ranking member.  
   Let me also thank my colleague from Texas (Mr. Culberson), who joined me in introducing this legislation. And, of course, we have worked very handily together, if you will. I thank his staff. And together we are committed to affirming and celebrating the 50th anniversary of NASA and as well the 50th anniversary of the Jet Propulsion Lab. 
   Let me just quickly acknowledge the founding of NASA in October, 1958, and remind my colleagues of all the successes that we have accomplished through the belief, as John F. Kennedy said, that we can explore space. 
   Might I acknowledge and remind my colleagues of February 20, 1962, John Glenn's becoming the first American to circle the Earth. On April 6, 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I. On November 13, 1971, Mariner 9 was launched. In 1981, NASA launched the space shuttle Columbia. And on June 18-24, 1983, NASA launched the space shuttle Challenger.     
   Of course, we have faced some sad moments in NASA's history, but overall, as we look toward the future and have reflected on July 22, 1999, Space Shuttle Columbia, and then of course July 20, 1969, Apollo 11, we know that tragedy has faced NASA, but we also know that we have faced tragedy with a certain determination and commitment to space exploration. 
   This coin bill will, in fact, allow us to commemorate a number of the centers and the 50 years of success of NASA and the Jet Propulsion Lab. But it also will provide a comfort to those families of Challenger and Columbia by providing aid to the families. It will give the coin collectors, I hope, a great day of celebration, and it will give those who are interested in studying and producing more Americans in math and science an opportunity to promote and support programs that will encourage young people to go into math and science. 
   I believe that this bill is one that all of us can support. It is a bipartisan bill  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2750, the NASA 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act. I would like to thank my colleague Mr. CULBERSON, who joined me in introducing this legislation, and Chairman FRANKS of the Financial Services Committee, for his excellent leadership in shepherding this historic legislation to passage on the House floor. 
   The year 2008 will mark the 50th anniversary of the creation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). This important legislation celebrates NASA's 50th birthday with a commemorative coin. The legislation also honors the extraordinary partnerships between NASA and its 10 space and research centers. 
   Madam Speaker, NASA has a distinguished history. The United States of America won the race to land a man on the moon and, thanks to the courage, dedication, and brilliance of NASA, America has continued to lead the world in the exploration of the solar system and the universe. 
   On October 1, 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began operation. At the time it consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million. Over the next 50 years, NASA has been involved in many defining events which have shaped the course of human history and demonstrated to the world the character of the people of the United States. 
   Many of us remember how inspired we were when on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed: ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to earth. No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish.'' 
   Always at the forefront of technological innovation, NASA has been home to countless ``firsts'' in the field of space exploration, from the 1958 launch of Pioneer 3, the first U.S. satellite to ascend to an altitude of 63,580 miles, to the January 1998 signing of the International Space Station agreement between 15 countries, establishing the framework for cooperation among partners on the design, development, operation, and utilization of the Space Station. Over the past 50 years, NASA's accomplishments have included: 
   On 20 Feb. 1962, John Glenn became the first American to circle the Earth, making three orbits in his Friendship 7 Mercury spacecraft. 
   On 6 Apr. 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, the first commercial satellite (communications), into geostationary orbit. On 13 Nov. 1971, the United States launched Mariner 9, the first I mission to orbit another planet (Mars). 
   On 12 Apr. 1981, NASA launched the Space Shuttle Columbia on the first flight of the Space Transportation System (STS-1). 
   On 18-24 Jun. 1983, NASA launched Space Shuttle Challenger (STS-7) carrying three mission specialists, including Sally K. Ride, the first woman astronaut. In another historic mission, two months later NASA launched STS-8 carrying the first black American astronaut, Guion S. Bluford. 
   On 22 Jul. 1999, the Space Shuttle Columbia's 26th flight was led by Air Force Col. Eileen Collins, the first woman to command a Shuttle mission. 
   On July 20, 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin made the first lunar landing mission while Michael Collins orbited overhead in the Apollo command module. Armstrong set foot on the surface, telling the millions of listeners that it was ``one small step for man--one giant leap for mankind.'' Aldrin soon followed him out and planted an American flag but omitted claiming the land for the U.S. as had routinely been done during European exploration of the Americas. The two Moon-walkers left behind an American flag and a plaque bearing the inscription: ``Here Men From Planet Earth First Set Foot Upon the Moon. Jul. 1969 A.D. We Came in Peace for All Mankind.'' 
   On April 24, 1990, the Hubble Space Telescope was launched into space aboard the STS-31 mission of the Space Shuttle Discovery. The Hubble has revolutionized astronomy while expanding our knowledge of the universe and inspiring millions of scientists, students, and members of the public with its unprecedented deep and clear images of space.'' 
   Madam Speaker, in addition to these historic events, NASA has greatly contributed to our understanding of our universe. In 1968, Apollo 8 took off atop a Saturn V booster from the Kennedy Space Center for a historic mission to orbit the Moon. As Apollo 8 traveled outward, the crew focused a portable television camera on Earth and for the first time humanity saw its home from afar, a tiny, lovely, and fragile ``blue marble'' hanging in the blackness of space. 
   This transmission and viewing of Earth from a distance was an enormously significant accomplishment and united the Nation at a time when American society was in crisis over Vietnam, race relations, urban problems, and a host of other difficulties. 
   The success of the United States space exploration program in the 20th Century augurs well for its continued leadership in the 21st Century. This success is largely attributable to the remarkable and indispensable partnership between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its 10 space and research centers. One of these important research centers is located in my home city of Houston. The Johnson Space Center, which manages the development, testing, production, and delivery of all United States human spacecraft and all human spacecraft-related functions, is one of the crown jewels of NASA and a lodestar Houston area. The other nine research and space centers are: 
   1. The Ames Research Center in California's Silicon Valley provides products, technologies, and services that enable NASA missions and expand human knowledge in areas as diverse as small spacecraft and supercomputers, science missions and payloads, thermal protection systems and information technology. 
   2. The Dryden Flight Research Center, the leading center for innovative flight research. 
   3. The Glenn Research Center, which develops power, propulsion, and communication technologies for space flight systems and aeronautics research. 
   4. The Goddard Space Flight Center, which specializes in research to expand knowledge on the Earth and its environment, the solar system, and the universe through observations from space. 
   5. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the leading center for robotic exploration of the Solar System. 
   6. The Kennedy Space Center, the gateway to the Universe and world leader in preparing and launching missions around the Earth and beyond. 
   7. The Langley Research Center, which continues to forge new frontiers in aviation and space research for aerospace, atmospheric sciences, and technology commercialization to improve the way the world lives. 
   8. The Marshall Space Flight Center, a world leader in developing space transportation and propulsion systems, engineers the future to accelerate exploration and scientific discovery. 
   9. The Stennis Space Center, which is responsible for rocket propulsion testing and for partnering with industry to develop and implement remote sensing technology. 
   NASA's stunning achievements over the last 50 years have been won for all mankind at great cost and sacrifice. In the quest to explore the universe, many NASA employees  have lost their lives, including the crews of Apollo 6, the Space Shuttle Challenger, and the Space Shuttle Columbia. 
   The surcharge proceeds from the sale of a coin commemorating the contributions of NASA will generate valuable funding for the NASA Families Assistance Fund for the purposes of need-based financial assistance to the families of NASA personnel who die as a result of injuries suffered in the performance of their official duties. And equally important, proceeds from the sale of commemorative coins will also benefit the Dr. Ronald E. McNair Educational, DREME, Science Literacy Foundation, which is dedicated to improving and strengthening the process of teaching and learning science, math, and technology at all educational levels, elementary through college through the promotion of innovative educational programs. 
   This legislation also benefits the Dorothy Jemison Foundation for Excellence which is dedicated to building critical thinking skills, experiential teaching methods, science literacy, and integrated approaches to learning and individual responsibility in achieving excellence. The remainder of the proceeds after distribution to the NASA Families Assistance Fund and the DREME and Jemison Foundations are slated to go the Smithsonian Institution for the preservation, maintenance, and display of space artifacts at the National Air and Space Museum (including the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center). 
   Madam Speaker, in the centuries to come, when space travel will be commonplace and America will have successfully led the way for humanity to colonize and utilize the resources of other planets, these first 50 years of NASA's existence will be remembered as the most significant era of human space exploration. It is, therefore, important that we commemorate the great achievements of NASA's first 50 years. 
   In closing, Madam Speaker, let me also thank the Staff of the Financial Services Committee on this legislation. I also wish to pay special tribute to Yohannes Tsehai and Gregory Berry of my staff. Without their valuable contributions this significant legislative achievement would not have been possible. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this historic legislation.  
   Madam Speaker, at this time, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. As I close, Madam Speaker, let me simply put in the Record the different research centers that will be honored: The Ames Research Center in California; Silicon Valley; the Dryden Flight Research Center; the Glenn Research Center; the Goddard Space Flight Center, that is our neighbor here in the Washington, D.C. area and represented by our own majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, which I would like to pay a special tribute and appreciation to, and to his staff and his chief of staff; the Jet Propulsion Lab that is in California; the Kennedy Space Center in Florida; the Langley Research Center; the Marshall Space Flight Center; the Stennis Space Center; and of course the Johnson Space Flight Center in Houston, Texas. All of these will be recognized. 
   And certainly to the astronauts and certainly to the loved ones of those fallen, and yet the future astronauts, who will be trained by funding in this bill, I thank them again. Let me thank Mr. Obey of Mr. Frank's staff, and my staff, Mr. Tsehai and Mr. Berry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The calling out of the names of the centers, if I may reclaim my time, is to indicate that all of them are part of the NASA family. And we are honoring NASA for its 50 years, so we wanted to make sure all of them were counted in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, we are hoping that all of the young people will enjoy this coin, and we hope that it will further science and exploration. I would ask my colleagues, and thanking my cosponsor and the 300-plus Members of this House, in supporting this bill. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this bill and move us forward in science and opportunity for a greater future for this country  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this gives me an opportunity for the first time to rise and thank Chairman Filner for the enthusiastic and passionate and newfound leadership that he has given to the Veterans' Affairs Committee. We thank him for being a beloved member of the veterans community. All over the Nation veterans are celebrating his chairmanship, and I thank him very much for his leadership, his bipartisan leadership with the ranking member of this committee. 
   And let me thank Chairwoman Herseth Sandlin for her leadership; and Mr. Boozman, thank you. This whole committee draws the affection of Members from both sides of the aisle, and both of you exhibit the kind of leadership that we and the veterans can be proud of. 
   I rise to support H.R. 1315 and acknowledge the many sections of the bill, which includes section 2, where the bill adopts Ms. Herseth Sandlin's legislation dealing with housing; and section 3, where Mr. Wynn of Maryland's legislation is adopted dealing with mortgage foreclosure; and section 5, which addresses the legislation of Mr. Reichert, which is so very important about employing our veterans. 
   I am proud that the basis for the new program dealing with the blind is based upon my bill, Visual Impairment Specialist Training Act. This VISTA act responds to the increasing numbers of veterans and soldiers who are now returning from the battlefield with vision injuries. I am proud that my legislation was strongly supported by Chairman Filner; Mr. Michaud, chairman of the Subcommittee on Health; and the co-chairs, as I have mentioned, of the Congressional Vision Caucus, Mr. Gene Green of Texas and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida. 
   This legislation is also supported by the Blind Veterans of America, an organization chartered by Congress in 1958, which has been for nearly 50 years the only veterans service organization exclusively dedicated to serving America's blind and visually impaired veterans. 
   Let me explain what this legislation does. We establish here and now an educational assistance program for persons pursuing training in blind rehabilitation. I thank the chairman for citing this legislation as a possible model for nurses and psychologists that may be needed as we move in the future. 
   There are approximately 160,000 legally blind veterans in the United States, but only 35,000 are currently enrolled in the Veterans Health Administration's services. It is estimated that there are over 1 million low-vision veterans in the United States, and incidence of blindness among the total veteran population of 26 million are expected to increase by about 40 percent in the next 4 years. This is because the most prevalent causes of legal blindness and low vision are age-related, and the average age of the veteran population is increasing. The current age is about 80 years old. 
   In addition, we know that there will be veterans coming home, because of the IED injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan, with injuries impacting their vision. 
   Let me also acknowledge the specifics of this legislation. It mandates that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide financial assistance to students enrolled in a program of study leading to a degree or certificate in visual impairment and/or orientation and mobility at an accredited educational institution in the U.S., provided they agree with the applicable requirements. As I said, the purpose of this scholarship program is to increase the supply of qualified blind rehabilitation specialists for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Nation. It requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to widely publicize this scholarship program to colleges and universities across the Nation, especially institutions with large numbers of Hispanic students and HBCUs, Historically Black Colleges. This is particularly helpful to the minority population who are interested in the field of vision rehabilitation. 
   To apply and participate in this scholarship program, an applicant shall submit to the Secretary, or his designee, an application and agree to serve a 3-year period of obligated service in the Department of Veterans Affairs. This is the crux of the legislation, so that we have a mandatory pool of those individuals helping the veterans as they move forward. 
   The maximum award for any full-time student per academic year may not exceed $15,000. The maximum award for any part-time student shall be determined in proportion to the amount that would be the case if the student were full time. For any student, however, the total amount of assistance may not exceed $45,000. 
   This is good news. It trains individuals, gives them a scholarship, and it doesn't burden the Federal Government. Why, because the debt is owed to  the United States Government and therefore it cannot be discharged because of bankruptcy. 
   To conclude my remarks, I ask that my colleagues look carefully at this hopefully innovative approach to helping our veterans and our returning soldiers who will be in great need from the injuries they have experienced. I thank the bipartisan leadership of this committee and ask my colleagues to support the bill  
   Mr. Speaker, I proudly rise to strongly support H.R. 1315, the ``Veterans' Benefit Improvement Act of 2007.'' I enthusiastically support this legislation because it keeps faith with the men and women who have worn the uniform in service to our country. Let me express my appreciation to Mr. FILNER and Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN, the Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee and the Chairwoman of the Economic Opportunity Subcommittee, and to their respective ranking members, Mr. BUYER and Mr. BOOZMAN, for their perseverance in shepherding this legislation to the House floor. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1315 consists of five main sections. Section 2 of the bill adopts Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN's legislation providing for specially adaptive housing (SAH) assistance to disabled servicemembers residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member. Under current law, a temporary grant may be available to veterans who are or will be temporarily residing in a home owned by a family member. This assistance, allowable up to $14,000, may be used to adapt the family member's home to meet the veteran's special needs at that time. 
   Section 5 of the bill, which is based on a proposal by Mr. REICHERT of Washington, requires the Secretary of Labor to provide Congress an annual report on veterans' reemployment rights. Section 6 adds an additional representative from the National Governor's Association to the existing 15 member Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment, Training and Employer Outreach withIn the U.S. Department of Labor. 
   Each of these provisions is a useful, constructive, and welcome legislative initiative. Any of one of them would warrant an overwhelming vote in favor of the bill. But Mr. Speaker, what makes this legislation truly extraordinary is the inclusion of Section 4, which establishes a ``Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professionals Education Assistance Program.'' This legislation will close a large gap in the Nation's commitment to blind and low-vision veterans by establishing a scholarship program for students seeking training in blind rehabilitation. 
   I am proud and honored, Mr. Speaker, that the basis for this new program for our blind and low-vision veterans is the legislation I introduced earlier this Congress, H.R. 1240, the ``Vision Impairment Specialist Training Act,'' or VISTA Act of 2007. I am proud that my legislation was strongly supported by the chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, Mr. FILNER; Mr. MICHAUD, the chair of this Committee's Subcommittee on Health; the co-chairs of the Congressional Vision Caucus, my colleague Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas and Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN of Florida. This legislation is also strongly supported by the Blind Veterans of America, an organization chartered by Congress in 1958, which has been for nearly 50 years the only veterans service organization exclusively dedicated to serving America's blind and visually impaired veterans. Companion legislation, S.1672, ``The VA Vision Scholars Act of 2007,'' has already been introduced in the other body by Senators Hagel, Obama, and Brown. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me explain briefly why it is so important that we establish here and now an educational assistance program for persons pursuing training in blind rehabilitation. 
   There are approximately 160,000 legally blind veterans in the United States, but only 35,000 are currently enrolled in Veterans Health Administration services. 
   In addition, it is estimated that there are over 1 million low-vision veterans in the United States, and incidences of blindness among the total veteran population of 26 million are expected to increase by about 40 percent over the next few years. This is because the most prevalent causes of legal blindness and low vision are age-related, and the average age of the veteran population is increasing; the current average age is about 80 years old. 
   Members of the armed forces are important to our Nation and we show them our appreciation by taking care of them even after they have completed their service. But the fact is that there are not enough blind rehabilitation specialists to serve all legally blind and low-vision veterans in the United States. 
   Blind rehabilitation training helps give these veterans awareness of and functioning in their surroundings and enables them to retain their independence and dignity. Veterans without these services may find it difficult to be self-sufficient, relying on others to perform certain skills or even simple tasks on their behalf. 
   Mr. Speaker, Public Law 104-262, the Eligibility Reform Act 1996, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to maintain its capacity to provide specialized rehabilitative services to disabled veterans, but it cannot do so when there are not enough specialists to address these needs. 
   Last December, the Veterans Programs Extension Act was passed, which included a provision by Congressman MICHAEL MICHAUD to increase the number of Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialists serving our Nation's veterans. However, there are currently not enough counselors certified in blind rehabilitation to provide for the growing number of blind or low-vision veterans, let alone the rest of our Nation's elderly population. 
   Section 4 of the legislation before us helps to remedy this situation by directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a scholarship program for students seeking a degree or certificate in blind rehabilitation (Vision Impairment and/or Orientation and Mobility). The availability of these scholarship opportunities will provide an incentive to students considering entry into the field. 
   Additionally, in exchange for the scholarship award, students are required to work for 3 years in a healthcare facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to ensure that our veterans are well cared for. 
   If I might, let me discuss this vital legislation in more detail. The legislation mandates that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide financial assistance to students enrolled in a program of study leading to a degree or certificate in Visual Impairment and/or Orientation and Mobility at an accredited educational institution in a U.S. state or territory, provided that they agree with applicable requirements. 
   As I stated earlier, the purpose of the scholarship program is to increase the supply of qualified blind rehabilitation specialists for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Nation. 
   The legislation requires that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall widely publicize this scholarship program to colleges and universities across the Nation, especially institutions with large numbers of Hispanic students and HBCUs. This is a particularly salutary provision because African Americans, Hispanics, and other minorities are underrepresented in the field of vision rehabilitation. 
   To apply and participate in the scholarship program, an applicant shall submit to the Secretary, or his designee, an application and agree to serve a 3-year period of obligated service in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The legislation requires that the Secretary shall include among the application and agreement materials a fair summary of the rights and liabilities of the applicant if accepted into the program. 
   When the Secretary approves of the applicant's acceptance, the applicant shall be promptly notified and accepted into the program. 
   The amount of financial assistance provided for an applicant shall be the amount determined by the Secretary as being necessary 
   to pay the tuition and fees of the applicant. If the applicant is enrolled in a dual degree or certification program, the amount awarded shall not exceed the amounts necessary for the minimum number of credit hours to achieve such dual certification or degree. 
   Financial assistance provided to an applicant by this scholarship program may supplement other educational assistance, as long as the total award does not exceed the tuition and fees required for an academic year. 
   The maximum award for any full-time student per academic year may not exceed $15,000. The maximum award for any part-time student should be determined in proportion to the amount that would be the case if the student were full-time. For any student, the total amount of assistance may not exceed $45,000. 
   The maximum duration for financial assistance under this program is 6 years. 
   The agreement for participation in this scholarship program shall be signed by both the Secretary and the participant. The Secretary shall agree to provide the participant with the authorized financial assistance and the participant shall agree to: accept the assistance; 
   maintain enrollment and attendance in the appropriate program of study; maintain an acceptable level of academic standing; serve as a full-time employee in the Department of Veterans Affairs for 3 years within the first 6 years after completing the program and receiving the degree or certificate specified. 
   If the applicant fails to satisfy the requirements of the agreement, the applicant must repay the amount equal to the unearned portion of assistance, except in circumstances authorized by the Secretary. The Secretary shall establish procedures for determining the amount of the repayment required, as well as the circumstances under which an exception to the required repayment may be granted. 
   The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the waiver or suspension of an applicant's obligation for service or payment whenever the  applicant's noncompliance is due to circumstances beyond his or her control or it is in the best interest of the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, I should point out that an obligation to repay the Secretary under this section is a debt owed the United States. Thus, a discharge in bankruptcy does not discharge a person from a debt under this legislation if the discharge order is entered less than 5 years after the date of the termination of the agreement or contract. 
   Mr. Speaker, every morning when I arrive at my office, I am reminded of how fortunate I am to live in a Nation as great as the United States. Outside of my office there is a poster-board with the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas, who have lost their lives wearing the uniform of our country. We live in a Nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer to the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. Now is the time to let our heroes know they have not been, and will never be, forgotten. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve the best care. After all, this is the least we can do for those who have done so much for all of us. 
   In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me also thank the Staff of the Veterans Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity for their hard work. I also wish to pay special tribute to several members of my staff without whose valuable contributions this significant legislative achievement would not have been possible: Maggie Mitchell, Shelle Gordon, Mona Floyd, Yohannes Tsehai, and Gregory Berry. 
   Mr. Speaker, nothing brings greater honor to this body and the persons we are proud to represent than keeping faith with the men and women who have worn the uniform in service to our country. H.R. 1315 keeps and extends our commitment to those who have risked their lives to defend our country. I urge all members to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I want to add the staff director of the full committee to the list of appreciation I would like to offer, along with Maggie Mitchell, Shelle Gordon, Mona Floyd, Yohannes Tsehai, Greg Berry, and all of the Veterans' Affairs Committee. 
   Also, let me acknowledge, I think there was a deletion of section 5, and I want to correct that for the record 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE THAT JAPAN SHOULD APOLOGIZE FOR ITS IMPERIAL ARMED FORCE'S COERCION OF YOUNG WOMEN INTO SEXUAL SLAVERY -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I thank the ranking member of this committee for creating the forum to recognize atrocities that many have tried to forget. 
   Let me thank Mr. Honda, the moving force of this legislation and the chairman of the Subcommittee on Asia, for his leadership, and I am so glad we have all mentioned Lane Evans because of the spirit and the enthusiasm and the determination in which he authored this legislation earlier before he left Congress. 
   Let me also speak to Ms. Lee, who remains as a steadfast anchor for all the women who cannot speak for themselves. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to take a different approach. I hope that people do not take lightly what acknowledgment, apologies and accepting historical responsibility means. This is about sexual slavery. 
   I ask my colleagues to just think that if we were addressing the question  today, which we have done in our Foreign Affairs Committee on sexual slavery, the holding of women, the debasing of women, the degrading of women, would most of us be rushing to the floor of the House to be able to condemn those actions that might be around us and around the world? 
   This is no less degrading, and its historical perspective does not diminish the responsibility of Japan and of this Congress to be able to say to these comfort women, women who were sexual slaves, that we apologize or ask Japan to apologize and hold the nation historically accountable for those actions. 
   Do you know that today textbooks in Japan, many of them diminish the actions of Japan and the activities that held the comfort women? These were women engaged in sexual activities allegedly to give comfort to the military. 
   So I would simply say, having gone through a number of debates about apologies regarding slavery in America, that apologies do count. It means something for those who have suffered in a way that they can never, never find an expression for. 
   So I rise today to support H. Res. 121 and place it in a historical context but in the context of today. We know that if any of those issues arise before us, we would stand here in condemnation. The comfort women's plight is no less deserving of our Nation, and, of course, a recognition by Japan that an apology, accountability, will go a long way in soothing the deeply embedded pain for those who no longer live but for those who live and suffer. 
   I ask my colleagues to support H. Res. 121  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE THAT JAPAN SHOULD APOLOGIZE FOR ITS IMPERIAL ARMED FORCE'S COERCION OF YOUNG WOMEN INTO SEXUAL SLAVERY -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 121, which calls on the Government of Japan to accept formal historical responsibility for one of the darkest chapters of World War II history in Asia and the Pacific, the Japanese military's use of ``comfort women'', the practice of coercion of young women into sexual slavery. 
   I would first like to acknowledge our distinguished colleague, Mr. HONDA of California, for introducing this important resolution and for his persistent efforts in giving voice to the victims of these crimes against humanity. 
    Japan, a loyal ally and one of U.S.' closest partners, plays a critical role in maintaining the geopolitical balance in a still volatile region. The Japanese government's refusal to acknowledge the despicable war-time practice of its Imperial Army known as ``comfort women'' stands in stark contrasts to the courageous humanitarian stand the Japanese government has taken in a number of humanitarian crises around the world and to its role as guarantor for peace in the region. 
   Facing up to one of the darkest chapters of its history is a genuine test for the maturity of a nation. In the aftermath of World War II, the German nation and its government found the courage to account for war crimes that the Third Reich committed during the war and occupation. 
   There can be no denying that the Japanese military committed those crimes involving thousands of women, mostly of Chinese and Koreans descent. It is particularly disturbing that some in Japan are still trying to distort the historical record and are denying that these crimes took place. The same parties are going even a step further and blaming the victims for engaging into prostitution. 
   It is up to this House to call for the Japanese government to set the record straight, not just for the sake of the past, but also because rape has been used across the globe today as a weapon of war. By supporting this resolution we send a strong and unambiguous signal to the Japanese Government to acknowledge its historical responsibility. We will also state Congress' strong l condemnation of rape as weapon of war. 
   While support of the resolution will finally give voice of the numerous victims of these despicable crimes, the Congress' intent is to assure our ally Japan that the resolution aims at forging the process of healing by facing certain historical experience and is not intended as retribution against a partner and ally. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me In supporting this important resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2831, LILLY LEDBETTER FAIR PAY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, might I put this in the present context so that our colleagues can recognize why this bill is so crucial? 
   Just about a week ago, many of us took to our communities to announce the first time in 10 years the increase in the minimum wage. In fact, it was July 24, 2007. The last time the minimum wage was increased for American workers, and by the way, we gave tax relief to our small businesses, was 1997 under the Democratic administration. It took a Democratic Congress to raise the minimum wage. For 10 years, we could not get our friends on the other side of the aisle to raise the minimum wage. It took a majority Democratic Congress to raise that wage.     
   Now, understand, suppose 23 years later you found out that the minimum wage was raised in 2007, but your employer had never told you. The question becomes, is it not fair for you to be able to have retroactively what is due you as a hardworking American? 
   That is what happened to Lilly Ledbetter, who worked for Goodyear year after year after year after year after year, and tragically, the Supreme Court, unevenly divided, appointed by this administration, believed that Lilly Ledbetter had no rights. 
   This legislation wants to put this system on the right track, and I thank the distinguished member of the Rules Committee; I thank Mr. Miller. I'm proud to be one of the cosponsors of this legislation. We are giving Lilly Ledbetter and all those who may be under her particular discrimination relief, and that is because she did not know of her rights to be able to pursue the discriminatory practices when they were happening. The Supreme Court threw her out of court. 
   This is an appropriate fix. My colleagues fixed a problem with the Border Patrol agents. I happen to agree with them. Mandatory sentences are really a challenge, but we're trying to fix something for a hardworking American, a woman who was discriminated against. 
   Under our labor practices, we have provisions for individuals to challenge unfair labor practices. We have an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that is for our own Americans to address unfair and discriminatory practices. We do not own up to the values of this Nation if we do not correct an injustice. It was an injustice for Lilly Ledbetter not to be allowed to pursue her discrimination charge. 
   I ask my colleagues to make it right and help women get equal pay for equal work 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DARFUR ACCOUNTABILITY AND DIVESTMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 180, the Darfur Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007, introduced by my colleague Ms. LEE of California, of which I am a co-sponsor. 
   Mr. Speaker, Darfur, where the fIrst genocide of the 20th century rages, remains the worst humanitarian situation we face today. Since the crisis began in 2003, an estimated 400,000 people have been killed by the Government of Sudan and its Janjaweed allies. Additionally, over 2,000,000 people have been displaced from their homes and livelihoods, many of whom are still either internally displaced within Darfur or are in refugee camps across the border in Chad. Both the House of Representatives and the Senate declared that the atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan constitute genocide in July 2004, and the Bush administration reached the same conclusion in September 2004. 
   And yet, three years later, the humanitarian situation in Darfur continues to decline. As attacks on international aid organizations continue to mount, the numbers of humanitarian relief workers active in the area are sharply declining. During the first three months of 2007, 21 humanitarian vehicles were hijacked, 15 additional vehicles were looted, and gunmen raided 6 humanitarian compounds. In the 12 months preceding April 2007, the number of humanitarian relief workers in Darfur decreased by 16 percent, largely due to security concerns, restriction on access, and 
   funding limitations. The flow of humanitarian aid has been severely threatened by the escalating violence in the region. 
   Divestment is one solid and easy way that individuals, organizations, businesses, universities, cities, and states can not only make a strong statement against genocide, but can actually act to halt the killing in Darfur. This legislation supports state, city, and university efforts to divest funds from, or restrict investments in, companies that conduct business operations in Sudan. It directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to require all companies trading in registered securities that conduct business operations directly or through parent or subsidiary companies in Sudan to disclose the nature of such operations, and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate the existence and extent of such companies' Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board investments. The State of Texas is one of a few states that has moved to divert from Sudan. The time to act is now. People are dying. I will be going to Sudan soon to visit the people of Darfur--we will visit aide workers and review the status of the U.N. Peacekeepers and the status of water and nutrition among the already brutalized Darfurians. Again we must act to save lives now. 
   This legislation also prohibits U.S. government contracts with companies that conduct business operations in Sudan, with exceptions for companies with activities in southern Sudan, related to the implementation of the 2006 Darfur Peace agreement, those providing military equipment to the African Union or the U.N. in Darfur, and those providing humanitarian aid. Targeted financial policies of this sort ensure that they will have the maximum impact on the government of Sudan, while minimizing any negative effect on innocent Sudanese civilians. 
   While U.S. law already prohibits American companies from directly operating in Sudan, they may still invest in foreign companies operating in Sudan, including many that are directly involved in supporting the genocide. Americans who invest in these American companies are, without their knowledge, financing Sudan's killing fields. As this bill explicitly states, ``No American should have to worry that his or her investments or pension money was earned in support of genocide.'' However, we must engage with China to encourage it to stop supporting actions in Sudan that lead to genocide. 
   Divestment has historically proven an effective tool to alter unjust and persecutory policies. In 1986, it was targeted against companies that conducted business operations in South Africa, and it played a critical role in ending the apartheid regime. By the time 
   free elections took place in 1994, large numbers of American States, counties, cities, and universities had adopted divestment policies. 
   Similarly, divestment has become an increasingly popular option in the current case of genocide in Sudan. I am proud that my home State of Texas is one of the growing numbers of States, cities, and universities to approve divestment. At last count, 9 cities, 16 States and 54 universities had passed legislation to ensure that their money does not go to finance the slaughter of innocent people in Darfur. In addition, numerous religious organizations, as well as countless individuals, have divested. Since the Sudan divestment movement began, companies including HC Helicopter, ABB, Siemens, Rolls Royce, and Schlumberger have halted or significantly altered their operations in Sudan. 
   Divestment represents the leverage that ordinary citizens and individual activists, as well as States, cities, universities, and other organizations, have to influence the Sudanese government. It is the answer to the question that so many of us active in the fight to end genocide in Darfur hear too often: ``What can I, as an individual, do in the face of such overwhelming and ongoing tragedy?'' 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people do not support genocide in Sudan; their money should not support these atrocities either. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in support of this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAN SANCTIONS ENABLING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. Let me quickly thank you for your leadership and thank the ranking member of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, who I know is involved in this action. 
   And let me applaud the approach. That's what I want to reaffirm. Diplomatic and economic sanctions have not been used effectively against Iran. And with the more publicized National Intelligence Estimates that indicates that terrorism is franchising around the world, the troubling activities of Iran with Iraq and the actions that seem to be moving Iran toward nuclear creativity, if you will, warrants a strong statement by the United States. And it also is warranted because of the active middle class who wants a democratic and free Iran. 
   This is a right way to go. It is a different approach from a military strike and the representations of this administration about attacking Iran militarily. The American people want to see us act, and I believe that this legislation dealing with a list of those investing and giving guidance to the economic sector is the right direction to take. 
   And I am also grateful that this does not preempt State law and States that  have already gone further in divestment. 
   So I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I hope my colleagues will support this legislation 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAN SANCTIONS ENABLING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding. 
   And I again want to emphasize that we are taking a monumental step forward in getting America's foreign policy on record opposing the actions in Iran. I would say almost irresponsible actions by the government. 
   I wanted to rise and thank Chairman Frank and Mr. Sherman, whose leadership on both the Financial Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee is well evident, this commitment to a free and democratic Iran. 
   But I speak to the Iranian community here in the United States, who, every day that I see them in my own community, want this peaceful and democratic Iran. We have to join with  them, and I think these sanctions raise the ante on the economic divestiture and also the opportunity for diplomacy  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2347, the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2007. I would like to thank my colleague, Chairman Franks, for introducing this important legislation, as well as for his leadership on the Financial Services Committee. 
   According to the Administration's ``National Security Strategy'' document released on March 16, 2006, the United States ``may face no greater challenge from a single country than Iran.'' I find Iran's support of terrorist organizations, pursuit of nuclear weapons, and dismal human rights record to be extremely worrisome. I have long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic Iran. I believe in an Iran that holds free elections, follows the rule of law, and is home to a vibrant civil society; an Iran that is a responsible member of the community, particularly with respect to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. An Iran that, unfortunately, we do not see today. 
   This legislation is a very important step because it uses diplomacy and economic tools effectively. We must not move to join the representation of the Bush Administration to begin another non-declared war. The President should work diplomatically and economically without provoking war or an offensive attack without the constitutional authority. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan bill authorizes state and local governments, as well as educational institutions, to divest from companies which invest in Iran's energy sector. Because estimates indicate that these companies account for 80 percent of Iran's hard currency, they directly allow Iran to fund its illicit nuclear weapons program. 
   The Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2007 directs the Secretary of the Treasury to publish biannually in the Federal Register a list of each person, whether within or outside of the United States, that has an investment of more than $20 million in the energy sector in Iran and to maintain on the Web site of the Department of the Treasury the names of the persons on such list. It shields any registered investment company from civil, criminal, or administrative action based upon its divesting from, or avoiding investing in, securities issued by companies included on such most recent list. 
   Additionally, this legislation expresses the sense of Congress that the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board should initiate efforts to provide a terror-free international investment option among the funds of the Thrift Savings Fund. Federal employees should have the opportunity to prevent their retirement savings from being invested in companies that support terrorism. 
   Mr. Speaker, Iran cannot be permitted to develop nuclear bombs. Although most experts believe that Iran is at least several years away from developing a nuclear weapon, the fact that Iran has begun the process is a very clear and disturbing signal. The United States must recognize that it is dangerous to do nothing. But it is equally dangerous to take actions that are rash, unwise, or ineffective. 
   We have ignored the inflammatory rhetoric of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. But we cannot ignore Iran's breaking of the U.N. seals on its uranium-enriching facilities in January. The U.S. government immediately understood the severity of the situation. This is not just a minor diplomatic nuisance--this is a serious security threat. The safety of the Iranian people, the safety of the Middle East, and even our own security is at risk. I firmly believe that we must utilize multilateral diplomatic channels to persuade Iran that it is not in its best interest to pursue nuclear weapons programs. I strongly support economic and diplomatic efforts to reign in Tehran, and I believe that we can work to resolve this crisis without resorting to the use of force. 
   I strongly support this important legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
   Let me just add, in my final comments, my support for H.R. 180, and I thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Chairman Frank for raising to the level of prominence the importance of divestiture in Sudan. There is not one day when we are not accounting for the numbers who die, the numbers who are suffering in Chad, and I want to rise to thank my State, the State of Texas, for being one of those States that has approved legislation that has divested our State funds from Sudan. 
   As I close, let me say as Secretary Paulson makes his way to China, I am hoping that he will have on his agenda the divestiture by China out of Iran and out of Sudan. It is, I believe, an international embarrassment but, more importantly, lives are being lost. And I think it is an important diplomatic, if you will, crisis that China continues to support Sudan through its energy purchases. I hope that is a discussion, and I ask my colleagues to support both bills 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SHIRLEY A. CHISHOLM UNITED STATES-CARIBBEAN EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the chairman of the subcommittee and the manager of the bill. And let me thank the Honorable Barbara Lee for her leadership and the ranking member for theirs. 
   Very quickly, it is my pleasure to rise and support this legislation, having had the opportunity to be associated with the Honorable Shirley Chisholm in New York and to see her enormous and challenging leadership. But the crux of this bill is an answer in response to our friends in the Caribbean. Through CARICOM and the leaders and heads of State, they represent the third border of the United States. They provide additional security through their homeland security efforts. 
   This opportunity for their skilled and talented young people to have an exchange program, to then go back to their own countries and provide the friendship, the alliance, and the security that we will need in the future is a key element of this legislation. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, and I congratulate all those responsible for it, and again, acknowledge the leadership of Shirley Chisholm  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WATER QUALITY INVESTMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support H.R. 569, the ``Water Quality Investment Act,'' which authorizes $1.8 billion in much needed funds for municipalities to control combined sewer overflows, CSOs, and sanitary sewer overflows, SSOs, at the local level, and to better reduce sewer overflows, which will allow them to maximize environmental and health benefits. This necessary increase in funding is a good first step toward addressing the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's estimated sewer overflow control costs of over $150 billion nationally. 
   Mr. Chairman, sewer system overflows are a growing problem in the United States today. Most Americans do not know that many of our municipalities utilize sewer systems constructed as far back as the 1860s. This antiquated infrastructure is deteriorating, and as a result, State and local governments are often unable to stop sewage and untreated waste from flowing into streets, basements, rivers, and lakes. It goes without saying, Mr. Chairman, that sewer overflows represent a major public health hazard. 
   Combined sewer systems, those handling both waste water and storm water, which are found mainly in older cities, are one source of these overflows. Our most recent data indicates that a total of 772 municipalities have combined sewers, serving approximately 40 million people. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, these combined sewer overflows, CSOs, discharge about 850 billion gallons of wastewater and storm water containing untreated waste, toxic debris, and other pollutants. 
   Sanitary sewer systems often overflow as well, releasing untreated waste into our environment in all 50 States and the District of Columbia. For example, in 2003, New Jersey closed over 30,000 acres of classified shellfish growing areas due to a large sanitary sewer overflow, 
   SSO. Another year saw over 1,000 sewer overflows in Michigan, totaling over 20 billion gallons in spilled sewage. 
   Upgrading these systems is extremely expensive. The EPA estimates that the total cost of repairing the country's combined sewer systems is nearly $51 billion. The price tag for fixing U.S. sanitary sewer systems hovers around $89 billion. Sewer overflow control grants were authorized for 2002 and 2003, but the Republican-controlled Congress never appropriated any funds and let the authorization expire. 
   But the new majority in this House understands that ensuring clean water is a top priority for America's working families. A clean and healthy environment begins with clean water. H.R. 569 will help to make the Nation's water supply cleaner and healthier by authorizing $1.8 billion in much needed funding for municipalities to control combined sewer overflows, CSOs, and sanitary sewer overflows. That is why H.R. 569 is strongly endorsed by dozens of water management, environmental, public resource, building trades, and civil engineering associations, including the following: 
   American Concrete Pipe Association; American Concrete Pressure Pipe Association; American Council of Engineering Companies; AFSME; American Public Works Association; American Society of Civil Engineers; American Sportfishing Association; Associated General Contractors of America; Associated Equipment Distributors; Association of Equipment Manufacturers; and Association of California Water Agencies. 
   American Supply Association; Construction Management Association of America; California Rebuild America Coalition; Chesapeake Bay Foundation; Clean Water Action; Clean Water Construction Coalition; Design-Build Institute of America; Environmental and Energy Study Institute; Food & Water Watch; Laborers' International Union of North America; and International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers. 
   International Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO; National Association of Counties; National Association of Flood and Stormwater Management Agencies; National Association of Clean Water Agencies; National Association of Regional Councils; National Association of Sewer Service Companies; National Association of Towns and Townships; National Construction Alliance; National League of Cities; National Precast Concrete Association; and National Ready Mixed Concrete Assocation. 
   National Rural Water Association; National Society of Professional Engineers; National Urban Agriculture Council; Pipe Rehabilitation Council; Portland Cement Association; Rural Community Assistance Partnership; SAVE International; Underground Contractors Association of Illinois; Uni-Bell PVC Pipe Association; United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices in the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry, AFL-CIO; The Vinyl Institute; The Western Coalition of Arid States; and United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America. 
   Mr. Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 569 and urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation that addresses one of the real and pressing needs of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE ISRAELI/PALESTINIAN CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, just a few minutes ago, Mr. Speaker, the King of Jordan offered a challenge to America and the world to allow Palestinian children and Israeli children to live in peace, as well as children around the world. 
   I for one, Mr. Speaker, accept the challenge and cite this government and particularly this administration for its slowness and its inattentiveness to the crisis and the solution and resolution of a roadmap for peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. 
   The King was right. In 2002, the Arab states did stand up and offer suggestions. Many of them may not have been those that we might have agreed with, but it is important, Mr. Speaker, that we now come to the table for the crisis is spiraling out of control. People are dying. Children are without opportunities. And the Iraq war only fuels the fire of dissent and confusion. 
   It is time now for our soldiers to come home. It is time now for us to take leadership in the Palestinian and Israeli crisis. And, yes, it is time now for us to treat our soldiers at Walter Reed and elsewhere with dignity. I join my colleagues in that fight for soldiers and for peace. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TRIBUTE TO LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON, 36TH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud Texan, I rise today to pay tribute to Lyndon Baines Johnson, the 36th President of the United States and the greatest ``Education President'' in the history of our Nation. 
   It is no exaggeration to say, Mr. Speaker, that Lyndon Baines Johnson's record of extending the benefits of education to all Americans in every region of the country, of every race and gender, irrespective of economic class or family background, remains unsurpassed. Lyndon Johnson recognized that the educated citizenry is a nation's greatest economic asset and most powerful guardian of its political liberties. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Johnson did more than any single American, living or dead, to make the federal government a partner with states and localities in the vitally important work of educating the people of America, from pre-kindergarten to post-graduate school. It makes perfect sense, therefore, to name the headquarters building of the U.S. Department of Education in his honor. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson was one of the leading figures of the 20th century. This teacher who became a president served his country in numerous, distinguished ways, including as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy during World War II, as a Member of both houses of Congress, as Vice President of the United States, and as the 36th President of the United States. 
   Lyndon Baines Johnson was born on August 27, 1908, in Stonewall, Texas. In 1927, he enrolled in Southwest Texas State Teachers College at San Marcos, Texas (Texas State University-San Marcos). He took a leave of absence for a year to serve as principal and teach fifth, sixth, and seventh grades at Welhausen School, a Mexican-American school in the South Texas town of Cotulla. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in August 1930. After graduation he taught at Pearsall High School in Pearsall, Texas, and taught public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston, Texas. In the spring of 1931, his debate team won the district championship. 
   In a special election in 1937, Johnson won the U.S. House of Representatives seat representing the 10th Congressional District of Texas, defeating nine other candidates. He was re-elected to a full term in the 76th Congress and to each succeeding Congress until 1948. 
   After the bombing of Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Johnson became the first Member of Congress to volunteer for active duty in the armed forces (U.S. Navy), reporting for active duty on December 9, 1941. Johnson received the Silver Star from Gen. Douglas MacArthur for gallantry in action during an aerial combat mission over hostile positions in New Guinea on June 9, 1942. President Roosevelt ordered all Members of Congress in the armed forces to return to their offices, and Johnson was released from active duty on July 16, 1942. 
   In 1948, after a campaign in which he traveled by ``newfangled'' helicopter all over the state, Johnson won the primary by 87 votes and earned the nickname ``Landslide Lyndon'', and in the general election was elected to the U.S. Senate. He was elected Minority Leader of the Senate in 1953 and Majority Leader in 1955. He served in the U.S. Senate until he resigned to become Vice President in January 1961. 
   Lyndon Johnson became the 36th President of the United States on November 22, 1963, after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
   During his administration, education was one of the many areas where President Johnson blazed new ground. He pursued numerous education initiatives, and signed many landmark education bills into law. 
   In 1963, President Johnson approved the Higher Education Facilities Act (P.L. 88-204) which authorized a five-year program of federal grants and loans for construction or improvement of public and private higher education academic facilities. This legislation was the largest education program enacted by  Congress since the National Defense Education Act of 1958, and it was the first broad education bill enacted in the post-World War II period that was not tied to national defense. 
   In 1964, Johnson signed the Library Services Act (P.L. 88-269) to make high quality public libraries more accessible to both urban and rural residents. The funds made available under this Act were used to construct as well as operate libraries, and to extend this program to cities as well as rural areas. Later that year, President Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act (P.L. 88-352), which among its landmark provisions authorized federal authorities to sue for the desegregation of schools and to withhold federal funds from education institutions that practiced segregation. 
   In 1965, President Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (P.L. 89-10) at the former Junction Elementary School in Stonewall, Texas, where he first attended school. Sitting beside him as he signed the bill was his first teacher, Mrs. Kathryn Deadrich Loney. This legislation was the first general aid-to-education program ever adopted by Congress, and it provided programs to help educate disadvantaged children in urban and rural areas. Later that year, he also signed the Higher Education Act (P.L. 
   89-329), which was the first program approved by the U.S. Congress for scholarships to undergraduate students. 
   In 1965, President Johnson launched Project Head Start, as an eight-week summer program, to help break the cycle of poverty by providing pre-school children from low-income families with a comprehensive program to meet their emotional, social, health, nutritional, and psychological needs. Recruiting children from ages three to school-entry age, Head Start was enthusiastically received by education and child development specialists, community leaders, and parents across the nation. Currently, Head Start continues to serve children and their families each year in urban and rural areas in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Territories, as well as many migrant children. 
   In 1966, President Johnson signed the International Education Act (P.L. 89-698), which promoted international studies at U.S. colleges and universities. 
   In 1968, he signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act Amendments of 1967 (P.L. 90-247), establishing bilingual education programs for non-English speaking children, and providing more funds for special education for disabled children. Later that year, he also signed the Handicapped Children's Early Education Assistance Act (P.L. 90-538), which authorized experimental programs for disabled children of pre-school age. 
   After leaving office, Lyndon Johnson returned to his native Texas and continued his involvement in public education. His presidential papers are housed at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum at the University of Texas, which in 1970 established the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs, The ``LBJ School,'' as is commonly known, pioneered what was then regarded as a novel approach to training for public service. 
   The curriculum combined courses in theory with courses that took students into government agencies to work and conduct research; the faculty included academics from various disciplines as well as practitioners from various levels of government; public service programs included an academic publishing program as well as workshops for government officials. This blend of the academic and the practical remains the distinguishing characteristic of the LBJ School and this highly effective approach to training for public service is today an accepted model for public affairs graduate programs across the country. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson, who died January 22, 1973, will be remembered not only as a great President and Member of Congress, but also as the greatest champion of accessible and affordable quality education for all. President Johnson truly understood the importance of leaving no child behind, and he didn't. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, it is most appropriate that the House voted to rename the headquarters building of the Department of Education located at 400 Maryland Avenue Southwest in the District of Columbia as the ``Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education Building.'' 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I pay tribute to President Johnson's leadership in the area of civil rights. In response to the civil rights movement, Johnson overcame southern resistance and achieved passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which effectively outlawed most forms of racial segregation. As he put down his pen, Johnson is alleged to have told an aide: ``We have lost the South for a generation.'' In 1965, he achieved passage of a second civil rights bill, the Voting Rights Act, that outlawed discrimination in voting, thus allowing millions of southern blacks to vote for the first time. 
   In other actions on the civil rights front, Johnson nominated civil rights attorney Thurgood Marshall to the positions of Solicitor General and later Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, making him the first African American to serve in either capacity. After the murder of civil rights worker Viola Liuzzo, Johnson went on television to announce the arrest of four Ku Klux Klansmen implicated in her death. He angrily denounced the Klan as a ``hooded society of bigots,'' and warned them to ``return to a decent society before it's too late.'' He turned the themes of Christian redemption to push for civil rights, thereby mobilizing support from churches North and South. 
   On June 4, 1965 at the Howard University commencement address, he said that both the government and the nation needed to help achieve goals: ..... To shatter forever not only the barriers of law and public practice, but the walls which bound the condition of many by the color of his skin. To dissolve, as best we can, the antique enmities of the heart which diminish the holder, divide the great democracy, and do wrong--great wrong--to the children of God. 
   Lyndon Baines Johnson was a giant of a man and a towering figure in the history and life of our nation. We are not going to see his like again.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on Monday, March 5, and Tuesday, March 6, I was detained because of my representation of the United States House of Representatives at a commemoration commemorating the 50th year of independence of the nation-state of Ghana. 
   If I had been present, on rollcall No. 122, H. Res. 140, supporting the goals of International Women's Day, I would have voted ``yea''; on rollcall No. 121, H. Res. 89, honoring the life and achievements of the late Dr. John Garang de Mabior, I would have voted ``yea''; rollcall vote No. 120, H.R. 497, the Brigadier General Francis Marion Memorial Act, I would have voted ``yea''; and rollcall No. 119, to amend Public Law to extend the authorization for establishing a memorial in the District of Columbia to honor veterans who served in the Armed Forces, I would have voted ``yea.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNATION OF NOOSE INTIMIDATION -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3845, introduced by my distinguished colleague from my home state of Texas, Representative Al Green. Through this important resolution, the House of Representatives will explicitly go on record against a form a racial hatred that has plagued this country for far too long. 
   As a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, I have been an outspoken advocate for civil rights and the vigorous prosecution of those who violate our Nation's laws that protect the most vulnerable amongst us. Though we cannot stop acts of racism, ignorance and intolerance, we must speak with a clear and loud voice and say the time has come for our Nation to no longer turn a blind eye to acts of hatred and intolerance. 
   This legislation comes at a time when the hanging of nooses is making a resurgence around the country. We all know about the case in Jena, LA, where a noose was hung in a school yard and resulted in the division of a town along racial lines, and where six black teenagers were arrested for beating a fellow white student after a series of racial disturbances. One of those students, Mychal Bell, just yesterday pled guilty to lesser charges after one of the largest civil rights protests in years and the largest march in the South since the 1960s. 
   This October, the Judiciary Committee held hearings on the matter, to address those responsible for administering the laws governing hate crimes. Unfortunately, as we have seen since the events of Jena, nooses are being hung in the halls of some our country's most distinguished institutions and businesses. At Columbia University's Teachers College, a noose was left on the doorknob of an African American female professor. In Chicago, a noose was found at a Home Depot construction site. In Queens, New York, a woman was arrested after hanging a noose in her yard and threatening to hang her African American neighbor's child from it. In my own home state of Texas, two students in Pearland hung a noose in their school parking lot. 
   It is unfortunate that this Congress is taking up this issue only after companies such as Home Depot and Verizon, as well as colleges and universities across the country and numerous other institutions, have already spoken against these acts with a loud and 
   clear voice. The time has come for the United States Congress to speak just as loudly and say we will not tolerate these heinous acts. 
   The symbol of the noose is powerful and offensive. Thousands of African Americans have been lynched in this country simply for being the ``wrong'' color. The incident of noose hangings of Black America was not aberrational or occasional. At any moment in time, an African American could lose their life at the hands of an angry white mob, and the symbolism of the noose still hangs over this country like a black cloud. The noose has come to symbolize white supremacy and the subjugation of an entire race of people. It has been used as a weapon against those who dared to challenge their condition. It has been used as a weapon to silence the voice of those who dared to speak out. The ritualistic, brutal, and public murders that took place with a noose were done specifically to terrorize the African American community. The threat of lynching was used to prevent people from voting, marching, protesting, getting an education, and even starting a business. The noose as sign of intimidation dates back to 1896 as a means of voter suppression. Today, we see the noose used to intimidate educational and business institutions, teachers, workers, community leaders and now our children. 
   With the passage of this resolution, our country and this Chamber will say, in no unclear terms, that we will not be intimidated and we will not allow our children to be intimidated. 
   I applaud this important resolution for the message it sends to the country and the world, that we do not tolerate hatred and bigotry against anyone.  
   Let me remind those who regard the hanging of a noose from a tree in Jena, Louisiana or anywhere else in this country as a harmless act: it is not harmless and it is not just a juvenile prank. It is a frightening and symbolic play for power, as was captured so poignantly by Billie Holiday in her unforgettable rendition of Southern Fruit:  
   Southern trees bear strange fruit, 
   Blood on the leaves and blood at the root, 
   Black bodies swinging in the southern breeze, 
   Strange fruit hanging from the poplar trees.  
   While the use of this racist tool continues, we must not forget that over 4,700 people were lynched between 1882 and 1959 in a campaign of terror led by the Ku Klux Klan. Nor should we forget that more people died at the hands of lynch mobs than died in the attack on Pearl Harbor (2,333) and died during Hurricane Katrina (1,836) combined. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must act now to stop the use of this racist and evil symbol of America's bitter waters. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GENOCIDE ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 888, the Genocide Accountability Act of 2007, introduced by Senator Durbin. I would like to thank my colleague Representative Berman for introducing this resolution in the House, where I am proud to join over 10 of my colleagues as a cosponsor of this important legislation. May I also take this opportunity to thank Chairman Conyers for his leadership in guiding this legislation through the Judiciary Committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is a tragedy that the 20th century, which excelled in technological innovation and great accomplishments in arts and letters, could also be remembered for events symbolizing man's inhumanity to man. Genocide in Rwanda, the former Yugoslavia, Cambodia, Germany, and the Ottoman Empire, to cite a few examples, showed us the monstrous potential of totalitarian regimes determined to annihilate entire ethnic, racial and religious groups. 
   Sadly, though the 20th century has been called ``the Age of Genocide'' by at least one prominent scholar, the crime has already been seen in the new 21st century, with the deplorable situation in Darfur. Over the recent August recess, I led a congressional delegation to Darfur, where, together with two of my colleagues, I had the tragic opportunity to see the plight of the people of Darfur, victims of the systematic annihilation attempt supported by the Government of Sudan. 
   Not since the Rwandan genocide of 1994 has the world seen such a systematic campaign of displacement, starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror as we are witnessing in Darfur for the last 3 years. At least 400,000 people have been killed in Darfur; more than 2 million innocent civilians have been forced to flee their homes and now live in displaced-persons camps in Sudan or in refugee camps in neighboring Chad; and more than 3.5 million  men, women, and children are completely reliant on international aid for survival. Unless the world stirs from its slumber and takes concerted and decisive action to relieve this suffering, the ongoing genocide in Darfur will stand as one of the blackest marks on humankind for centuries to come. 
   In 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the ``Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.'' As its title suggests, the treaty imposes two core obligations on participating states: first, state parties undertake to prevent genocide; and second, they commit to punish genocide as well as several related acts, such as attempting to commit 
   genocide. The Genocide Convention establishes our core obligations in combating the genocide phenomenon--preventing and punishing Genocide. The document gives the U.N. a broad license to deal with genocide. In addition, individual states are expected to do all they can to prevent genocide. It also gives responsibility to state parties to prosecute the perpetrators of genocide. 
   In 1987, Congress enacted legislation to bring U.S. law into conformity with the Genocide Convention. The ``Proxmire Act'' (The Genocide Convention Implementation Act of 1987) is the key U.S. law implementing the Genocide Convention. When read together with other provisions of the federal criminal code concerning conspiracy and complicity, the Proxmire Act addresses the explicit obligation set forth in Article VI of the Genocide Convention concerning prosecution of genocide and related criminal acts in courts of the State where genocide occurs. In addition, the Proxmire Act makes it a federal crime for a U.S. national to commit genocide anywhere. 
   The proliferation of civil wars accompanied by ethnic cleansing and outright genocide which characterized the end of the 20th century, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the civil wars in Somalia and Liberia, produced a number of perpetrators of genocidal acts who later ended up on American shores. This revealed a shortcoming in our current laws, under which the United States cannot indict someone for genocide committed outside the United States, even when the victim is an American citizen, unless the perpetrator is a U.S. national. 
   In contrast, laws on torture, material support for terrorism, terrorism financing, hostage taking, and many other federal crimes allow for extraterritorial jurisdiction for crimes committed outside the United States by non U.S. nationals. In light of this legal gap in our obligations to prosecute perpetrators of genocide, I commend my colleagues Mr. Berman and Mr. Pence for introducing the Genocide Accountability Act., H.R. 2489 in May of 2007. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation would close a legal loophole that prevents the U.S. Justice Department from prosecuting people in our country who have committed genocide. The bill specifically amends Title 18 to establish federal criminal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide wherever the crime is committed. This jurisdiction should be exercised when the alleged offender is present in the United States and he or she will not be vigorously and fairly prosecuted by another court with appropriate jurisdiction. 
   Many countries have adopted or enforced legislation establishing jurisdiction over certain international crimes, including genocide, wherever committed if the alleged perpetrator is in their territory and any additional requirements are satisfied. This legislation will be a further step toward bring the United States into line with its international obligations, and toward ensuring that no perpetrator of genocide living on U.S. soil can go unpunished. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRESERVING AND EXPANDING MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4043, the ``Preserving and Expanding Minority Depository Institutions Act''. Minority-owned financial institutions are vitally important to the economic development and revitalization of urban and minority communities. Businesses and residents in these traditionally underserved communities rely on minority-owned financial institutions to serve their banking and other financial services needs. They have always been there when we needed them--making homeownership a reality for many for whom homeownership was elusive, providing capital for the neighborhood grocery and barber shop, financing housing rehabilitation, providing consumer credit counseling services, providing jobs, and revitalizing communities. 
   However, minority-owned financial institutions face many challenges. By and large much smaller than other banks, minority banks have difficulty competing with larger institutions for deposits and other business. It is often difficult to diversify their geographical and credit risk exposures. They also face challenges associated with operating in economically depressed markets. 
   Despite these challenges, minority-owned financial institutions are committed to providing  capital, promoting economic revitalization, and creating jobs. They are committed to serving the urban and minority communities in which they are located and the people and businesses that reside there. We need them. 
   Minority-owned financial institutions comprise only about two percent of all financial institutions and a significantly lower percentage of total industry assets. We must do all that we can to support, protect and promote these institutions. 
   This bill, H.R. 4043, the Preserving and Expanding Minority Depository Institutions Act, is an important step. Existing law requires that the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) consult with the Department of the Treasury on methods to preserve, encourage and promote minority ownership of depository institutions and provide technical assistance, training and education programs. 
   H.R. 4043 would direct the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Comptroller of the Currency to help preserve, encourage and expand minority-owned financial institutions by participating in those activities. In addition, the bill would require each of the participating agencies to submit an annual report to the Congress on actions taken to implement the law.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN COMES FIRST ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2517, the Protecting Our Children Comes First Act of 2007, introduced by my good friend and colleague Congressman Lampson. I would like to thank him for his ongoing commitment to the extremely important issue of protecting our children, and I would also like to thank Chairman Miller for his leadership in guiding this legislation through the Committee on the Education and Labor. I am extremely proud to join over 90 of my colleagues in cosponsoring this crucial, bipartisan legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Protecting our Children Comes First Act of 2007 reauthorizes the Missing Children's Assistance Act through FY 2013, and it will increase federal resources for protecting and assisting missing children and their families. This legislation will provide the resources to ensure that the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children can continue its important work to combat child abduction and exploitation. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I have been an outspoken advocate for the protection of our children against all predators, be it disease, natural disasters, or sexual deviants. While we may not be able to avoid natural disasters, there is nothing but a lack of political will and Congressional action that prevents us from protecting our children from known sexual predators. I am appalled that while the Department of Justice knows  the location of hundreds of thousands of sexual predators that prey on our Nation's children within the U.S. at this very moment, the Department of Justice has consistently refused to take action or ask Congress for help despite the fact that law enforcement is investigating less than 2 percent of this criminal activity. I applaud this important piece of legislation for the accountability it will create by building the largest law enforcement army ever created for the protection of children. 
   While the child exploitation industry is global in scale, the majority of both supply and demand is based right here, within the United States. Due to the lack of attention to this issue by the Department of Justice, it is hard to quantify the number of child pornography traffickers that are involved in this gross violation of our children's rights; the best estimates are that this practice involves 485,000 perpetrators in the United States alone. A 2005 Justice Department study found that: 
   80 percent of child pornography possessors have images and videos depicting sexual penetration. 
   Twenty percent of child pornography possessors have images of bondage, sadistic abuse, and torture. 
   Eighty-three percent of child pornography possessors have images of children aged 6-12. 
   Nineteen percent of child pornography possessors have images of infants or toddlers. 
   Only 1 percent of child pornography possessors restricted their ``collecting'' to images of nude children. 
   Law enforcement reports of websites providing live ``pay-per-view'' rape of very young children. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must act now to protect our children from these atrocities and this legislation is an important first step in doing so. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's  (NCMEC) mission is to help prevent child abduction and sexual exploitation; help find missing children; and assist victims of child abduction and sexual exploitation, their families, and the professionals who serve them. Established in 1984, NCMEC is a nonprofit organization that provides crucial services nationwide for families and professionals in the prevention of abducted, endangered, and sexually exploited children.  
   Mr. Speaker, as technology continues to evolve, there are continuously a new range of tools available to NCMEC to employ in its important work. In recent years, the Center's workload has expanded exponentially, largely due to the growth of the Internet. Ernie Allen, president and CEO of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, stated that it anticipates in excess of 110,000 reports through the CyberTipline, which the public may use to report Internet-related child sexual exploitation, and provides technical assistance to individuals and law-enforcement agencies in the prevention, investigation, prosecution, and treatment of cases involving missing and exploited children, among other tasks. This is an increase of around 3,500 from last year. 
   Mr. Speaker, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has proven a crucial tool in combating the exploitation and abduction of our Nation's children. It is vital that we continue to ensure that it continues to receive the funding that it needs to carry out its mission. This Congress has taken a firm stance on supporting legislation that protects our children, as can be seen by the passage of numerous pieces of legislation that binds our government to take meaningful action towards the protection of our children. I was a proud cosponsor of the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Florida, Representative Wasserman-Schultz, which passed the House 415-2 last month. Our children are this Nation's most valuable asset and this legislation ensures that we will invest all the necessary resources to provide them the protection they deserve. 
   This legislation is imperative to ensuring the protecting our Nation's children by providing funding to those agencies with our children's best interest at heart. As the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, a Representative of the people of the United States, and a mother of two, I am proud to support this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2895, the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act of 2007. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, the chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Mr. FRANK, for introducing this legislation, as well as for his leadership in bringing this important issue to the floor. 
   Mr. Chairman, in recent months we have seen a crisis in subprime mortgage lending, which has threatened the stability of the housing market and the livelihoods of large numbers of Americans. This Democratic Congress is committed to strengthening the housing market and stabilizing the economy, and this legislation is an important step toward these important goals. 
   Because of the lack of regulation by the Federal Government, many loans were accompanied by fraud, inadequate information and other failures of responsible marketing. With exceptionally high (and rising) foreclosure rates across the country, homeowners all over America are losing their homes. Homeowners are surprised to find out that their monthly payments are spiking and they are struggling to make these increasingly high payments. 
   The sub-prime mortgage crisis has impacted families and communities across the country. Home foreclosure filings rose to 1.2 million in 2006--a 42 percent jump--due to rising mortgage bills and a slowing housing market. In Iowa, 3,445 families experienced foreclosure last year, up 64 percent from 2005. Nationally, as many as 2.4 million sub-prime borrowers have either lost their homes or could lose them in the next few years. I commend the Democratic-led House Financial Services Committee for its work on this issue, toward achieving a balanced solution that helps stabilize the mortgage market, stops abuses, preserves access to credit, and aids stable homeownership. 
   H.R. 2895 establishes a National Affordable Housing Trust Fund to build or preserve 1.5 million homes or apartments over the next 10 years, and it does so without increasing Government spending or the Federal deficit. This legislation is a fiscally responsible way of expanding affordable housing and mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure, while also strengthening consumer protections against future risky loans. H.R. 2895 initially allocates between $800 million and $1 billion annually, funded through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This funding is given directly to States and local communities, and is targeted to be used for the construction of affordable housing and support for lower income families, who face the greatest housing affordability challenges. 
   Mr. Chairman, 17 million households, or one in seven, spend more than 50 percent of their income on housing. On any given night, approximately 750,000 men, women, and children are homeless. Constructing more affordable housing is necessary to help families who have lost their homes in the subprime mortgage crisis or due to a family financial crisis, such as illness or job loss. It will also make significant strides toward reducing homelessness and the number of Americans living in unsafe housing conditions. 
   The National Affordable Housing Trust Fund, established by this legislation, must be used for low- and moderate-income families, or those below 80 percent of State or local median income. At least 75 percent of funds must go to extremely low-income families, who are below 30 percent of median income. This legislation also helps the families of our Nation's nurses, teachers, firefighters, and police officers by reserving 10 percent of trust fund money for families who earn between 50 and 80 percent of the national median income. H.R. 
   2895 allows these funds to be used for construction, rehabilitation, acquisition, preservation incentives, and operating assistance to facilitate affordability. These funds may be used for both affordable rental housing and for down payment and closing cost assistance by first-time homebuyers. 
   Mr. Chairman, provisions in this legislation ensure equitable distribution of funds across our Nation. Of these funds, 60 percent will go to participating local jurisdictions, and 40 percent will go to States, Indian Tribes, and insular areas. All grantees will be required to make funds available in rural areas, proportionate to identified need in such areas. Eligible recipients of these funds can be any organization, agency, or other entity that has demonstrated the experience and the capacity to carry out the proposed trust fund activity, including for-profits, nonprofits, and faith-based organizations. Funds may not be used for administrative costs or expenses, political activities, advocacy, lobbying, counseling, travel expenses, and preparation of or advice on tax returns. Grantees are required to develop systems to ensure program compliance and oversight. 
   In my home district in Houston, homelessness remains a significant problem. Houston's homeless population increased to approximately 14,000 in 2005, before Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and hurricane evacuees remaining in the Houston area could result in the homeless population increasing by some 23,000. Approximately 28 percent of homeless Americans are veterans. 
   In August, I, in coordination with the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, hosted a workshop on the introductory concepts and considerations in applying for Housing Tax Credits in Texas. This workshop  was designed to create new incentives for developers to expand business opportunities in housing development, as well as to generate a significant increase in the availability of low-income and affordable housing for the residents of Houston and Harris County. I believe that an increase in affordable housing and job opportunities will help reduce the high rates of homelessness among Houston residents. 
   Mr. Chairman, the 110th Congress has already demonstrated its commitment to moving America in a new direction. This includes strengthening the housing market and stabilizing the economy, particularly after the recent subprime mortgage crisis. This legislation is an important step toward expanding affordable housing and mortgage opportunities for American families. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Act of 2007. This legislation will amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the authority of the Internal Revenue Service to use private debt collection companies, to delay implementation of withholding taxes on Government contractors, to revise the tax rules on expatriation, and for other purposes. I would like to thank my colleague, the distinguished chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. RANGEL, for introducing this legislation, as well as for his leadership in bringing this important issue to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation strengthens Government accountability and protects taxpayers and confidential tax information. It will repeal the IRS's authority to enter into, renew, or extend contracts with private companies to collect Federal income taxes. Currently, the private debt collection program exposes taxpayers to harassment, wastes tax dollars by paying a bounty of up to 24 percent to debt collectors, and jeopardizes long-term taxpayer compliance. The collection of Federal income taxes is an inherently governmental function that should be restricted to IRS employees. Furthermore, the use of private contractors violates the special and confidential relationship between taxpayers and the Federal Government, and could jeopardize the privacy of taxpayers, possibly undermining long-term taxpayer compliance. In addition, private debt collection is an extremely inefficient way to collect Federal income taxes. 
   Since the authority to enter into private debt collection contracts was first granted in 2004, the Federal Government has spent $71 million to collect a net of $20 million in tax receipts. If this money was spent hiring IRS employees, the National Taxpayer Advocate estimates the Federal Government could have collected $1.4 billion. This provision is estimated to cost $1.054 billion over 10 years. 
   In addition, this legislation delays the application of the withholding requirement on certain governmental payments for goods and services. For payments made after December 31, 2010, the Code requires withholding at a 3 percent rate on certain payments to persons providing property or services made by Federal, State, and local governments. The withholding is required regardless of whether the government entity making the payment is the recipient of the property or services, those with less than $100 million in annual expenditures for property or services are exempt. Numerous government entities and taxpayers have raised concerns about the application of this provision. The provision would delay for 1 year, through December 31, 2011, the application of the 3 percent withholding requirement on Government payments for goods and services in order to provide time for the Treasury Department to study the impact of this provision on government entities and other taxpayers. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation stops the tax benefits for expatriates who renounce their citizenship. U.S. citizens and long-term U.S.  residents are subject to tax on their worldwide income. Taxpayers can avoid taxes by renouncing their U.S. citizenship or terminating their residence. It would immediately impose a tax on these individuals, strengthening current law to ensure that certain high net-worth taxpayers cannot renounce their U.S. citizenship or terminate U.S. residence in order to avoid paying taxes. Under this provision, high net-worth individuals will be treated as if they sold all of their property for its fair market value on the day before such individual expatriates or terminates their residency. Gain will be recognized to the extent that the aggregate gain recognized exceeds $600,000, which will be adjusted for cost of living in the future. 
   Finally, H.R. 3056 increases information return penalties. This provision would increase the penalties for failing to file correct returns, failing to furnish correct payee statements, and failing to comply with other information reporting requirements. If a taxpayer fails to file a correct information return before August 1, current law imposes a $50 penalty. This bill would increase this penalty to $100 per information return, with a maximum penalty of $600,000 per calendar year, $250,000 in the case of small businesses. Where a taxpayer files a correct information return after the filing date but before 30 days after the filing date, the current law $15 penalty will be increased to $25, with a maximum penalty of $200,000 per calendar year, $75,000 in the case of small businesses. 
   Where a taxpayer files a correct information return more than 30 days after the filing date but before August 1, the penalty for information returns will be increased from $30 to $60, with a maximum penalty of $500,000, $150,000 in the case of small businesses. The provision is a scaled-back version of the Treasury Department's proposal to increase penalties on failures to provide information returns. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can reduce the tax gap and make sure that taxpayers pay their fair share by having the IRS collect unpaid Federal taxes compared to private debt collectors. The American people demanded a new direction for America in the 2006 elections, and I believe that Congress must stand up for the American taxpayer. The current program's practice of giving unaccountable private contractors unfettered access to the personal financial data of American citizens poses an unnecessary and unacceptable risk. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection Responsibility Act of 2007. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2881, the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act of 2007. This important legislation would usher in important modernizations to our Nation's aging air travel system, bringing air travel in a new direction while making important safety improvements. 
   Mr. Chairman, after 9/11, we feared that tragedy would lead to large-scale declines in air travel. Six years later, airline traffic is instead growing, but with this boom have come some negative consequences for passengers. Key among these have been airline delays: The first half of 2007 saw record high numbers of airline delays. Through July, over one-quarter of all flights were delayed, and over 6 percent of flights arrived more than 1 hour late. Projections indicate this problem is likely only to get worse, with numbers of passengers, operations, and cargo expected to triple by 2025. 
   We need to invest now to improve our Nation's air-travel infrastructure. Even more critical than these increasingly inconvenient delays are the growing deficiencies in our aging air traffic control systems. As chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security arid Infrastructure Protection of the Committee on Homeland Security, I am committed to ensuring a maximum level of safety and security for Americans traveling the skies. To this end, I believe that the modernization of air traffic control and airport infrastructure needs to be a higher priority. 
   This legislation recognizes this crucial need. It provides $13 billion to accelerate the implementation of the Next Generation Air Transportation System. This program will enable the FAA to repair and replace existing facilities and equipment, and will also make funds available for implementing other high-priority safety-related systems. In addition, this bill includes a fiscally responsible increase in the general aviation jet fuel tax rate from 21.8 cents per gallon to 35.9 cents per gallon, and it increases the aviation gasoline tax rate from 19.3 cents per gallon to 24.1 cents per gallon. Crucially, the funds secured by these increases will be dedicated to air traffic control modernization. 
   Mr. Chairman, I believe that safety must lie at the heart of our efforts to improve air travel. You cannot put a price on the value of keeping American travelers safe. This legislation will make important strides toward this important goal by increasing the number of aviation safety inspectors by more than one-third. It will also strengthen efforts to reduce runway incursions. 
   In addition, this legislation will increase accountability, by requiring detailed plans for the Next Generation Air Transportation System. It also authorizes GAO and Inspector General audits and reports, which will help reduce cost overruns and delays in the air traffic control modernization program. 
   Mr. Chairman, I support this legislation, and I am extremely pleased that it will include the  amendment offered by my colleagues Mr. LAMPSON and Mr. POE. This amendment eliminates a 55 percent increase in passenger facility charges, which are imposed whenever a passenger passes through an airport. These taxes create a substantial financial burden on travelers, particularly those who must pass through several airports in transit. While I do not minimize the need for funds to improve airport facilities, I believe there are far more equitable ways of obtaining this funding. 
   Mr. Chairman, as we work to ensure funding for our Nation's vital air transit system, I look forward to working with the airports to increase contracting opportunities for minority-owned business. As airports embark on important programs of improvement, I call on them to create an even playing field, in which small- and minority-owned businesses can compete for contracts. 
   Mr. Chairman, air travel is crucial to many Americans, who rely on safe and rapid transit to conduct business, visit family, or take a family vacation. With ever increasing strains on our air transit system, this important legislation will take air travel in a new direction--providing consumer protections for airline passengers, modernizing infrastructure, improving safety, and reducing delays for people and commerce, fuel consumption, and emissions that cause global warming. 
   I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1338, PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairwoman of the Rules Committee. Her presence on the Rules Committee is evidence of the struggle, but yet the progress, and the reason why we stand here today. I thank the long-standing, committed Member of Congress, Rosa DeLauro, and I certainly thank the leadership for recognizing as we approach a very important time of year, August 26th, 2008, that will reflect on  the movement of women arguing not for special preferences, but simply equality, that this Paycheck equality legislation must pass today! 
   So the Paycheck Fairness Act is crucial to that equality, because it clarifies the ``any factor other than sex'' defense that kept Ms. Ledbetter from knowing and being able to petition for more money, is clarified to show that the disparity is not sex-based, is job-related, and necessary for the business. Do people realize that Ms. Ledbetter worked and toiled for years without understanding that she was not being paid a fair day's wage for a fair day's work? How tragic in America. 
   May I ask the Members to support this legislation, because it is real, it is needed now!  
   Mr. Speaker, I would also like to thank Congresswoman DeLauro for this important legislation as well as the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on Education & Labor for working together to see that gender equity is not just something we talk about, but something we are actually willing to put into action. 
   This legislation is intended to combat the wage gap that still exists today between men and women in the workplace. It is an important step in addressing the persistent wage gap between women and men by updating the Equal Pay Act--passed more than 45 years ago. 
   The reality is the Equal Pay Act needs to be strengthened and improved for all women to combat wage discrimination and eliminate loopholes in the current law. The Paycheck Fairness Act creates meaningful penalties against employers whose pay practices are proven to have been discriminatory. The bill will also protect workers from retaliation by their employers when employees discuss their pay with coworkers. 
   Earlier this year the House passed H.R. 2831, legislation reversing last year's Supreme Court decision in Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., in which the court ruled, 5-4, that workers filing suit for pay discrimination must do so within 180 days of the actual decision to discriminate against them. 
   The Paycheck Protection Act is also needed to stop discriminatory pay practices by employers against our mothers, wives, daughters, and granddaughters that do the same job as their male counterparts. 
   The Paycheck Fairness Act, which currently has 230 cosponsors, will strengthen the Equal Pay Act--passed more than 45 years ago--and as a result improve the law's effectiveness, and help to address the persistent wage gap between men and women. The Paycheck Fairness Act would: 
   Clarify acceptable reasons for differences in pay by requiring employers to demonstrate that wage gaps between men and women doing the same work are truly a result of factors other than sex. 
   Deter wage discrimination by strengthening penalties for equal pay violations, and by prohibiting retaliation against workers who inquire about employers' wage practices or disclose their own wages. The bill's measured approach would ensure that women can obtain the same remedies as those subject to discrimination on the basis of race or national origin. AAUW would strongly oppose any efforts to add such caps. 
   Provide women with a fair option to proceed in a class action suit under the Equal Pay Act, and allow women to receive punitive and compensatory damages for pay discrimination. 
   Clarify the establishment provision under the Equal Pay Act, which would allow for reasonable comparisons between employees to determine fair wages. 
   Authorize additional training for Equal Employment Opportunity Commission staff to better identify and handle wage disputes. 
   It will aid in the efficient and effective enforcement of federal anti-pay discrimination laws by requiring the EEOC to develop regulations directing employers to collect wage data, reported by the race, sex, and national origin of employees. 
   It will require the U.S. Department of Labor to reinstate activities that promote equal pay, such as: Directing educational programs, providing technical assistance to employers, recognizing businesses that address the wage gap, collecting wage-related data, and conducting and promoting research about pay disparities between men and women. 
   More importantly for our young ladies going into the workforce, it will establish a competitive grant program to develop salary negotiation training for women and girls. 
   As a Member of the Women's Caucus and former President of the Black Women Lawyers Association of Houston, I have been fighting for pay equity for American women since before I arrived here as a Representative in 1995, and I believe that equal pay for equal work is a simple matter of justice. Wage disparities are not simply a result of women's education levels or life choices. 
   In fact, the pay gap between college educated men and women appears first after college--even when women are working full-time in the same fields with the same major as men--and continues to widen during the first ten years in the workforce. 
   Further, this persistent wage gap not only impacts the economic security of women and their families today, it also directly affects women's retirement security tomorrow. Now is the time for additional proactive measures to effectively address wage discrimination and eliminate loopholes that have hindered the Equal Pay Act's effectiveness. 
   I urge my colleagues, both men and women, to support equality in rights and pay for all Americans by supporting the Paycheck Fairness Act, and vote ``no'' on the motion to recommit.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REQUESTING THAT THE PRESIDENT FOCUS APPROPRIATE ATTENTION ON NEIGHBORHOOD CRIME PREVENTION AND COMMUNITY POLICING, AND COORDINATE CERTAIN FEDERAL EFFORTS TO PARTICIPATE IN NATIONAL NIGHT OUT -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in requesting that the President focus appropriate attention on neighborhood crime prevention and community policing, and coordinate certain Federal efforts to participate in National Night Out, which occurs the first Tuesday of August each year, including by supporting local efforts and community watch groups and by supporting local officials, to promote community safety and help provide homeland security. This important resolution will work to make America a safer place by recognizing the importance of community policing and crime prevention. 
   National Night Out, ``America's Night Out Against Crime,'' is a program designed to heighten crime prevention and drug prevention awareness; generate support for, and participation in, anti-crime programs; strengthen neighborhood spirit and police community relations; and send a message to criminals that neighborhoods are organized and fighting back. This is an opportunity to bring citizens, law enforcement agencies, civic groups, businesses, neighborhood organizations and local officials together to fight crime where we live. Last year, over 35 million people celebrated the National Night Out with activities such as traditional ``lights on'' and front porch vigils, block parties, cookouts, parades, contests, youth programs, and visits from local police and sheriff departments. This event is celebrating its 25th anniversary on Tuesday, August 5, 2008. 
   National Night Out supports the Department of Homeland Security's Ready campaign by handing out materials and educating and empowering the public on how to prepare for, and respond to, potential terrorist attacks or other emergencies. Additionally, this event supports the National Child Identification Program, a joint partnership between the American Football Coaches Association and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to provide identification kits to parents to help locate missing children. The National Sheriffs Association, the United States Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities have all officially expressed support for National Night Out. 
   Neighborhood crime watch groups, such as National Night Out, contribute to the Nation's war on drugs by helping to prevent communities from becoming markets for drug dealers. They play an integral role in combating domestic terrorism by increasing vigilance 
   and awareness and encouraging citizen participation in community safety and homeland security. Additionally, community-based programs involving law enforcement, school administrators, teachers, parents, and local communities work effectively to reduce school violence and crime and promote the safety of children. 
   The neighborhoods we once knew as places of peace and harmony are now engaged in the fight against the rising tide of crime and violence. One of the saddest results of this increasing crime is that neighbors fear for their safety and become alienated from one another. Through this National Night Out celebration, people in the neighborhood are brought closer together, overcoming the atmosphere of fear and mistrust that comes with changing times. National Night Out gives people a sense of neighborhood pride and positive community spirit. 
   This is why I strongly support the goals and ideals of National Night Out and request that the President issue a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to conduct appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for National Night Out; focus appropriate attention on neighborhood crime prevention, community policing, and reduction of school crime by delivering speeches, convening meetings, and directing the Administration to make crime reduction an important priority; and coordinate the efforts of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the USA Freedom Corps, the Citizen Corps, the National Senior Service Corps, and AmeriCorps to participate in National Night Out by supporting local efforts and neighborhood watches and by supporting local officials, including law enforcement personnel, to provide homeland security and combat terrorism in the United States. I urge my colleagues to support the National Night Out, which effectively works to protect Americans from crime across the nation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 4137, HIGHER EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady from California for her leadership. I thank the Education Committee and our leadership. 
   As many States in this great Nation, Texas is a college State; in my community in particular, the University of Houston, Texas Southern University, Houston Baptist, Saint Thomas, Houston Community College, and I'm sure many, many others. This is a relief. This is a hallelujah day to be able to help our young people reach their greatest promise. 
   This is an important initiative. It encourages colleges to reign in price increases and provides consumers with helpful information. Now, because of desperate times, many, many State legislatures are giving our colleges the ability to raise tuition. It is going up and up and up. Now there will have to be an accountability. You will have to explain what are you doing to mitigate the cost. We want our children educated. We don't want them broke. 
   This restores integrity and accountability to the student loan program. You'll have an option, you'll have information, your parents will have information. You will be able to work together so that you can invest in your education and still be able to survive once you graduate. 
   It simplifies the Federal Student Aid application access. It expands college access and support for low-income and minority students. It allows you to have your loans forgiven if you are police officers, teachers, scientists, and others that are helping this community. It strengthens our workforce and our competitiveness. It helps our veterans and military families. It is a day that recognizes that America is made great by those who educate and those who, with their own genius, will provide for the next intelligence, the next leadership of the 21st century. 
   All over the world they want to copy and emulate how we educate. They want to come to the United States because of the principles of freedom. This higher education bill will allow us to pursue that freedom in the right way, and it assures equal college opportunities for students with disabilities. I applaud that. I celebrate that. I encourage that opportunity for those students whose minds are agile and who are ready to go to work, and it encourages colleges, the most important place, to adopt sustainable and energy-efficient practices. This is a valuable step in educating our community. 
   I do want to close by simply saying we have to be on the front lines of education, primary and secondary education. This is the bill that does it. I ask my colleagues to support the Higher Education Opportunity Act.  
   I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4137, To amend and extend the Higher Education Act of 1965, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative George Miller. This significant piece of legislation provides greater access to colleges and universities, making higher education affordable for all Americans, not just the wealthy. 
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. As a member and senior whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This legislation will increase funding to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, as well as Hispanic and other minority-serving institutions, and it will expand college access and support for low-income and minority students. 
   This legislation contains provisions allowing students to receive Pell Grant scholarships year-round, and it increases the Pell Grant maximum to $8,000. In addition, it strengthens college readiness programs, namely the TRIO and GEAR UP college readiness and support programs for low-income and first-generation students. These increases will expand college access for low-income and minority students. The amendment offered by my colleagues Representative EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON and Representative Don Young expands upon current Pell Grant eligibility, allowing children who lost a mother or father to our wars in Iraq or Afghanistan to be eligible for the maximum amount of Pell Grant assistance. In this age of global war on terror, it is imperative that we ensure that those left behind by those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great Nation are given the greatest opportunity our country can provide. As such, I encourage all my colleagues to join me in supporting this important amendment. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation contains important provisions opening up even wider opportunities for our veterans by increasing college aid and housing aid for not only veterans, but their families. This legislation creates a new scholarship program for active duty military personnel and family members, including children and spouses of active duty military service members or veterans. It establishes support centers to help veterans succeed in college and graduate. Finally, it ensures fairness in student aid and housing aid for veterans, making it easier for them to attend college while also fulfilling their military service duties. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would also like to express my strong support for an amendment introduced by my distinguished 
   colleague Congressman Danny Davis restoring safeguards to student loan borrowers. Mr. Speaker, students who take out loans borrow money as part of their pursuit to better themselves and contribute to the advancement of our Nation and economy. However, current bankruptcy laws apply the same severe standards to student borrowers that it applies to those trying to escape child support payments, alimony, overdue taxes, and criminal fines. Under Mr. Davis's amendment, Government student loans and loans made by nonprofit entities would remain non-dischargeable; other student loans, made by for-profit banks and other lenders, would continue to be non-dischargeable for the first 5 years after they come due, and after that time they would be treated like other unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy. Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and to work to restore bankruptcy protection to private student loans.  
   Understanding the federal application for Federal Student Aid can be challenging and complex even for the most knowledgeable parent. The College Opportunity and Affordability Act would streamline and simplify the application process, giving families the tools they need to properly plan for their college expenses. This legislation will reform our higher education system, ensuring students and their families have the information they need to understand their borrowing options when applying for Federal and private loans. 
   Mr. Speaker, as an active member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I am extremely supportive of the provisions in this legislation that boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans. Last year's tragedy at Virginia Tech has illustrated the horror to which students might be exposed, and natural disasters in recent years have underlined the necessity of having campus disaster plans. 
   This legislation helps all colleges develop and implement state-of-the-art emergency systems and campus safety plans, and it requires the Department of Education to develop and maintain a disaster plan in preparation for emergencies. In addition, this legislation creates a National Center for Campus Safety at the Department of Justice to work in collaboration with the COPS program. Finally, it establishes a disaster relief loan program, to help schools recover and rebuild in the event of a disaster. 
   This important piece of legislation gives our youth, our veterans, and our families the opportunity to not only dream of attending college but actually realize that dream. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4137 and the conference report.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer and withdraw an amendment on this particular bill. 
   The amendment has to do with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, calling upon them to increase the number of medical centers specializing in posttraumatic stress disorder in underserved urban areas, which shall include using the services of existing health care entities pursuant to the authority in section 1703. 
   This particular amendment has to do with ensuring the cooperation with existing health care institutions used by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a). 
   I would like to see these facilities located in an area defined as a HUBZone and as well in an area that covers rural areas. I would like to see, according to my amendment, that these facilities would be located within a State that has sustained more than 5 percent of the total casualties suffered by the United States Armed Forces in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.     
   I am very pleased that, under the leadership of Chairman Edwards, longstanding leadership, that the legislation that we have before us includes more dollars for mental health and substance abuse, and as well some $3.8 billion, and also it includes $200 million to address the question of fee-based services in the Veterans' Affairs medical system. It also has additional money, $5 billion, for medical facilities and $165 million for extended care. 
   My amendment was to recognize the plain facts of combat, as we have seen more and more soldiers coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan wounded not only physically but mentally. Most of these soldiers have seen--94 percent of the soldiers in Iraq have reported receiving small arms fire, 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured. Some similar numbers we are finding in Afghanistan because we have seen an increased amount of combat in Afghanistan. 
   And so, Mr. Chairman, my concern is to ensure that we have the right kind of facilities for our soldiers that are returning. So I offer this amendment because I thought it was very important to include hospitals like Riverside General Hospital, the only historically black hospital I believe remaining in the United States, founded and organized by a World War II veteran, or family of a World War II soldier. 
   I would hope that as we move toward the conference, since this amendment is now being withdrawn as I conclude my remarks, I am hoping that we will be able to work with the committee and ensure that we have the opportunity to make this work. 
   I'd like to yield to the chairman, if I could. I'd like to yield to the gentleman about the amendment that I have that has to do with providing post-traumatic stress disorder facilities in collaboration with existing facilities. 
   I think this is a good amendment. I am offering and withdrawing it in cooperation with the committee. I won't go down to 1600 Pennsylvania and work with the White House, but I would like to work with this committee and this chairman, and thank him for his leadership, as well as Chairman Filner, who has been more than powerful, if you will, on the issues of veterans. 
   This has to do with putting these facilities in historically underserved areas and, as I indicated to you, Riverside Hospital has an initial grant. We are having some difficulty in making sure they get their moneys from the last time. But I think we need more of these facilities. 
   I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If I could reclaim my time and say that the underpinnings of this amendment has to do with existing satellite facilities such as Riverside Hospital that could be in collaboration. I would be very grateful if I could work with the chairman and full committee, and I want to acknowledge the chairman of the full committee in looking at that as we go into conference, as to whether or not we can at least ensure that those facilities will be looked at. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you very much.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak in support of the bill and in favor of my amendment. I also rise to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Edwards, the chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and Military Construction, and the Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, Mr. Filner, for all they have done and continue to do to make real President Lincoln's admonition that ``we care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' 
   In particular, I wish to commend Chairman Edwards, for the leadership, commitment, and foresight he has demonstrated on the issue of PTSD and the overall mental health of our nation's veterans. Like Mr. Edwards and Mr. Filner, I am committed to improving the lives of thousands of veterans who have risked their lives for our nation, and I believe my amendment plays a crucial role in ensuring that veterans suffering from PTSD receive the medical treatment they desperately need. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to explain my amendment to H.R. 6599, the ``Veterans Affairs and Military Construction Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year of 2009.'' As a Member of Congress from Texas, a state which has sustained more casualties in the ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq than all but one other, I am pleased to offer this amendment. This amendment is intended to address the urgent need for more post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) treatment and counseling facilities servicing veterans living in some of the more distressed areas of our country. 
   Mr. Chairman, according to Webster's, dignity is ``the quality or condition of being esteemed, honored or worthy.'' We can never do enough to honor our wounded veterans. Studies have shown that 30 percent of troops deployed to Iraq suffer from depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, when wounded troops return home, the treatment they receive is more befitting a second class citizen than a hero. This is a shame and a great stain on our nation. 
   How these problems could be overlooked or neglected by this Administration is unfathomable. The very leaders that these brave young men and women rely let them down. The message that incidents like Walter Reed Medical Center sends to our troops is  that we do not care enough. But that is not the message we wish to send. The Veterans Administration and Military Construction Appropriations Act of 2009, 
   H.R. 6599, will go a long away toward correcting this misapprehension. All Members of the House are indebted to our colleague, Mr. Edwards of Texas, for his masterful leadership in shepherding this landmark legislation to the House floor. For the more than 29,000 brave men and women who have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, help is on the way. And the over 4,000 heroes who have given the last full measure of devotion will always be in our hearts and prayers. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of medical facilities specializing in post-traumatic stress disorder located in underserved urban areas. Access to post-traumatic stress disorder treatment is especially important since veterans living in such areas are less likely to be diagnosed and treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. 
   Mr. Chairman, PTSD is one of the most prevalent and devastating psychological wounds suffered by the brave men and women fighting in far off lands to defend the values and freedom we hold dear. 
   For those of us whose daily existence is not lived in harm's way, it is difficult to imagine the horrific images that American servicemen and women deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other theaters of war see on a daily basis. In an instant a suicide bomber, an IED, or an insurgent can obliterate your best friend and right in front of your face. Yet, you are trained and expected to continue on with the mission, and you do, even though you may not even have reached your 20th birthday. 
   But there always comes a reckoning. And it usually comes after the stress and trauma of battle is over and you are alone with your thoughts and memories. And the horror of those desperate and dangerous encounters with the enemy and your own mortality come flooding back. 
   PTSD was first brought to public attention in relation to war veterans, but it can result from a variety of traumatic incidents, such as mugging, rape, torture, being kidnapped or held captive, child abuse, car accidents, train wrecks, plane crashes, bombings, or natural disasters such as floods or earthquakes. 
   People with PTSD may startle easily, become emotionally numb (especially in relation to people with whom they used to be close), lose interest in things they used to enjoy, have trouble feeling affectionate, be irritable, become more aggressive, or even become violent. They avoid situations that remind them of the original incident, and anniversaries of the incident are often very difficult. PTSD symptoms seem to be worse if the event that triggered them was deliberately initiated by another person, as in a mugging or a kidnapping. Most people with PTSD repeatedly relive the trauma in their thoughts during the day and in nightmares when they sleep. These are called flashbacks. Flashbacks may consist of images, sounds, smells, or feelings, and are often triggered by ordinary occurrences, such as a door slamming or a car backfiring on the street. A person having a flashback may lose touch with reality and believe that the traumatic incident is happening all over again. 
   Mr. Chairman, the fact of the matter is that most veterans with PTSD also have other psychiatric disorders, which are a consequence of PTSD. These veterans have co-occurring disorders, which include depression, alcohol and/or drug abuse problems, panic, and/or other anxiety disorders. 
   The current conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq are the most continuous combat operations since Vietnam. Soldiers in Iraq are at risk for being killed or wounded themselves, are likely to have witnessed the suffering of others, and may have participated in killing or wounding others as part of combat operations. All of these activities have a demonstrated association with the development of PTSD. One study indicated that 94 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small-arms fire. In addition, 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who was seriously injured or killed, 68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously injured Americans, and 51 percent reported handling or uncovering human remains. The majority, 77 percent of soldiers deployed to Iraq reported shooting or directing fire at the enemy, 48 percent reported being responsible for the death of an enemy combatant, and 28 percent reported being responsible for the death of a noncombatant. 
   My amendment recognizes that these soldiers are first and foremost, human. They carry their experiences with them. Ask a Vietnam Veteran about the frequency of nightmares they experience, and one will realize that serving in the Armed Forces leaves a lasting impression, whether good or bad. My amendment ensures that ``no soldier is left behind.'' By directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of medical facilities specializing in PTSD that are located in underserved urban areas, and conducting a concurrent study on increasing access to PTSD treatment at these facilities those soldiers will never feel forgotten or taken for granted. These soldiers can be certain that Members of Congress will ensure that they receive the necessary treatment to guarantee that their adjustment back into society is a successful one. 
   As the war in Iraq continues to drag on, and with our country continuing to send military personnel to Afghanistan, the military has been overwhelmed with returning soldiers suffering from mental health problems. Earlier this month, Col. Elspeth Ritchie, psychiatry consultant to the Army surgeon general, stated ``as the war has gone on, PTSD and other psychological effects of war have increased. The number of (mental health workers) that was adequate for a peacetime military is not adequate for a nation that's been at war.'' 
   Mr. Chairman, according to surveys conducted of troops in Iraq, 15-20 percent of Army soldiers have demonstrated signs of post-traumatic stress. Symptoms of this serious disorder include nightmares, flashbacks, emotional detachment, dissociation, insomnia, loss of appetite, memory loss, clinical depression, and anxiety. One year after returning from combat, approximately 35 percent of soldiers are seeking some kind of mental health treatment. Among soldiers still stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan, many incidents of abuse, including killings and rapes by U.S. soldiers, have been attributed to ethics lapses caused by the strain of combat. 
   Mr. Chairman, last Thursday, the Department of Defense released a report that stated ``current efforts fall significantly short'' in providing help for troops. Further, this report found that ``[t]he psychological health needs of America's military service members, their families and their survivors pose a daunting and growing challenge to the Department of Defense.'' 
   I urge adoption of my amendment. And I thank the Chairman for his fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I ask again, Mr. Chairman, unanimous consent at this time to withdraw the amendment, but keeping in mind that veterans and returning soldiers need service and they need to have the kind of service for PTSD. And I hope that we will be able to accomplish that. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Without objection, the amendment is withdrawn. 
   There was no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHEMICAL FACILITY SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Chemical Facility Security Improvement Act of 2007. 
   It is my hope that this act will improve upon the current legislation authorizing the Department of Homeland Security to regulate security practices at the Nation's chemical facilities. 
   On October 5, 2006, H.R. 5441, FY07 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act became law (P.L. 109-295). Section 550 of that bill granted the Department of Homeland Security the authority to promulgate interim regulations for chemical facility security. 
   Although not required for interim regulations, the Department put out an Advance Notice of Rulemaking and requested public comments. Parts of the proposed regulations caused concern, prompting comments from myself and several of my colleagues in Congress. The intention of this bill is to address four areas of concern: Preemption of State laws, use of specific security measures, information protection, and private rights of action. 
   The most concerning piece of the proposed regulation occurred when the Department decided to go far beyond congressional intent and assert the right of the Secretary to preempt any State or local law; H.R. 5441 was silent on the issue of preemption of State laws, and other major chemical security legislation considered in the 109th Congress--specifically H.R. 5695 and S. 2145--protected State laws from preemption in most cases. 
   This bill will protect State laws by allowing no Federal funds to be used to approve a site security plan unless the facility meets or exceeds security standards established by the State or local government. 
   H.R. 5441 restricted the Secretary from requiring the use of any particular security measure. The use of specific security measures could, however, prove necessary to lower the risk posed to and by the chemical facility in certain cases. This bill removes this restriction and would allow the Secretary to require the use of specific security measures where necessary. 
   According to the proposed regulations, the Department seeks to create a new class of security information called Chemical-Terrorism Vulnerability Information (CVI). The creation of new classes of protected information is not desirable, and this bill would require Vulnerability Assessments and Site Security Plans to be treated as Sensitive Security Information (SSI). SSI is the same information classification currently used for Vulnerability Assessments and Site Security Plans required by the Coast Guard under the Maritime Transportation Security Act, under which chemical facilities located at ports are currently regulated.  
   H.R. 5441 also restricted the right of a private citizen to sue a facility or the Department to force the facility to adopt and enforce the security measures. I feel that private suits are sometimes necessary to force a Federal agency to enforce regulations passed by Congress. Given the proliferation of signing statements made by President Bush in the past, we should not assume that congressional intent will be automatically followed. 
   Regulations that preclude American citizens from access to judicial action run counter to our values. We should be empowering the citizens of this country to help protect the homeland, not restricting them from doing so. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE RULES -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished member of the Rules Committee for yielding. 
   I rise to finally say we have relief. I thank the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and the chairwoman of the Small Business Committee because without you, we wouldn't be here today being able to finally move forward not only tax relief for small businesses but getting a vote for the minimum wage. Thank you very much. 
   And I thank you for working it out with the ranking members. Finally we will be able to move in the other body that would not give us an up-or-down vote on the minimum wage. But we have good news because we extend the Work Opportunity Tax Credit. We help small businesses invest in new equipment, which is so very important. And, third, and what is certainly not least, we win the support, as I said, of the Senate to move forward on the minimum wage. 
   But it is important to note that this WOTC will help veterans, ex-felons, high-risk youth, and welfare recipients, individuals who create the engine of our economy who are trying for a second chance. So this is the right kind of mixture, giving relief to small businesses, which I have always said, are the backbone of the economy of America. I am grateful to say that the small businesses in the 18th Congressional District, which have created an economic engine in our community, will now have the right kind of tax relief to create opportunities for them to reinvest in their own businesses to buy more equipment, because every one of us go home to the churning of small businesses. Every day small businesses open their doors and create jobs for one and two and three and four and five and six and seven and eight and nine and ten employees. So this will be the right message that we will send. 
   Then, of course, we will give the opportunity for training for our welfare-to-work mothers. We will give training for our veterans. We will give training for high-risk youth. And, yes, we will help those who are trying to reenter to be able to create an opportunity for their families. 
   Finally, of course, I am gratified that we will have the opportunity now in 10 years to provide the opportunity for those on minimum wage. And in the State of Texas this will create a $4,000 increase for our working families with a minimum wage increase. 
   Let me thank the proponents of this bill. I ask for a vote in support of H.R. 976.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 976, the ``Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007.'' I support the bill for several reasons. First, H.R. 976 extends the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC)--which provides incentives to employers to hire individuals from targeted groups that frequently experience barriers to work--for one year and expands it to cover disabled veterans. 
   Second, H.R. 976 helps small businesses invest in new equipment and more easily afford large capital expenses. It extends small business expensing (Section 179) for one year--increasing both the amount small businesses can deduct from their taxes (from $112,000 to $125,000) and the number of small businesses that can take these deductions (by increasing the income limits for businesses taking the deduction from $450,000 to $500,000). 
   Third, and not least important, passage of H.R. 976 is necessary to win the support of the Senate and signature of the President on the legislation passed earlier by this House to raise the minimum wage for millions of hard-working, low-wage workers by $2.10 per hour to $7.25. It has been more than nine years since the minimum wage was last increased, the longest period in the history of the law. In contrast, during this time period Indeed, Mr. Speaker, that it removes the last major hurdle between low-wage workers and the long-overdue pay raise they desperately need, is reason enough for me to support the bill before us. 
   But evaluated on its merits, the Work Opportunity Tax Credit included in the bill before us is a good and useful measure. The Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) is a successful federal tax credit that encourages employers to hire eight persons belonging to one or more of eight targeted groups of job seekers by reducing employers' federal tax liability. The credit limit is $2,400, and the targeted groups include veterans, ex-felons, high-risk youth, and welfare recipients. 
   Mr. Speaker, government data show that 7 out of 10 welfare recipients who obtain jobs in the private sector are using WOTC, and that placing workers in private employment is highly cost-effective compared to State-funded public service jobs. Under the WOTC, employers pay the bulk of job costs, so the average cost to the Government is about $900 per job per quarter (with a ceiling of $1,560 annually) while the cost of a State-funded public service job at $7 per hour averages $3,700 per quarter with no ceiling. Thus, WOTC enables States to economize their welfare and training block grants and saves money that can be used for child care and transportation. 
   And what are the benefits to the less-skilled and disabled workers WOTC is intended to help? Virtually every study of jobs credits by the Government Accountability Office and independent evaluations funded by the Department of Labor have shown that employment and skills of these workers are increased. In fact, in one study, GAO reported that WOTC workers achieve gains in real wages as a result of their jobs. 
   Mr. Speaker, the WOTC provides a market incentlve to employers to hire and train less-skilled and disabled workers. To continue this human capital investment in workers who might otherwise be left out of the job market--some 20 million high school dropouts, less-skilled high school graduates, single parents on welfare, disabled workers, and returning combat veterans--we need to extend the WOTC. By extending the WOTC, many more employers, especially small businesses, will have an incentive to look for and offer jobs to people who at first glance may not appear to be good job prospects. 
   Mr. Speaker, the job site is the place where the most effective learning occurs for a young worker or slow-starter. Because the growth of the nation's labor force is slowing, future economic growth will depend on raising productivity by upgrading skills and making every worker count. Extending the authorization for WOTC will advance this goal. That is why the legislation before us, H.R. 976 is worthy of our support. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, let us also remember how important that the minimum wage be increased. Today's minimum wage of $5.15  today is the equivalent of only $4.23 in 1995, which is even lower than the $4.25 minimum wage level before the 1996-97 increase. It is scandalous, Mr. Speaker, that a person can work full-time, 40 hours per week, for 52 weeks, earning the minimum wage and would gross just $10,700, which is $5,888 below the $16,000 needed to lift a family of three out of poverty. 
   Mr. Speaker, since 2000 the cost of college tuition has risen 57 percent, which is only slightly less than the increase in the cost of gasoline. Health insurance premiums have skyrocketed by 73 percent and inflation is up 13.4 percent. But during that time, the minimum wage has not increased one cent. That is unconscionable and downright un-American. 
   Mr. Speaker, today more than ever America's hard-working families are feeling squeezed, living paycheck to paycheck. I can tell you Mr. Speaker that record prices at the pump, skyrocketing health care costs and the rising cost of college in the face of falling or flat wages, are squeezing hard-working Texans in my Houston-based Congressional District as they struggle to make ends meet. That is why ensuring that the minimum wage is increased to $7.25 per hour is one of the nation's highest priorities. 
   For Texas workers the basic cost of living is rising; it is only fair that the pay for hard-working Texans does too. Nearly 890,000 hard-working Texans would directly benefit from raising the federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour, and 1,774,000 more Texans would likely benefit from the raise. 
   Raising the minimum wage is vital for Texas families. At $5.15 an hour, a full-time minimum wage worker in Texas brings home $10,712 a year--nearly $6,000 below the poverty level for a family of three. An increase of $2.10 an hour would give these families a much needed additional $4,400 a year to meet critical needs such as rent, health care, food and child care. The increase in the minimum wage before us today will not allow workers to live as large as the typical CEO, who now earns 821 times more than a minimum wage worker, but at least it will allow these low-wage workers to make a little better life for themselves and their families. 
   Mr. Speaker, 89 percent of Americans favor raising the minimum wage. Americans know that the minimum wage must be increased. They know low-wage workers, many of whom live in your district and mine, badly need the money and have been waiting for it for too long. That is why I urge all members to support H.R. 976, which is inextricably linked to the minimum wage increase.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TOYS FOR KIDS ANNUAL HOLIDAY PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. This is a season for joy and for giving, and it is a season where children's eyes particularly sparkle. I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to pay tribute and thank the many, many volunteers that joined me on this past Saturday to provide, again, for the 13th Annual Toys for Kids Annual Holiday Program and Christmas Giveaway in the 18th Congressional District. 
   So many volunteers came from so many parts of our community. The faith community; fraternity and sorority community; the women's organizations; and schools came out to celebrate with our kids. NASA participated. Four astronauts came to celebrate and to compete, if you will, with Santa Claus. 
   Over 3,000 children came to receive gifts, fellowship, to eat. But this could not have been done without all of the supporters and certainly all of the volunteers. I tip my hat to all of you for bringing joy to the children's hearts and minds this past Saturday, December 15, 2007. Again, a great success for the Kids Annual Holiday Program in Houston, Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008) -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished gentlelady from New York, the chairwoman of the Rules Committee. 
   I rise in a somewhat curious posture, and that is, to support the job that has to be done on behalf of the American people. So I would call this the responsible serving of the American people's spending bill. That's what Democrats have attempted to do today. 
   I remind my colleagues that most of the appropriations bills, I would say all  of them, have been passed out of this body, and certainly the predicament that we find ourselves in is because of the administration's refusal to prioritize on behalf of the needs of veterans; the needs of major research institutions; a failing job market that needs increased job training dollars; the young people of America who want a future and, therefore, college assistance; and then recognizing the importance and the crucialness of access to health care; a good energy policy; and certainly the needs of repairing the transportation system of America. 
   I'm grateful that we have reprogrammed dollars to include money for research, job training, college assistance, access to health care, and as well, that we're reminded that we must ensure the safety of this Nation, while fighting, of course, to preserve the transportation centers of excellence, the letter that I wrote to ensure that funding for that would be included. 
   And though we talk sometimes without understanding about the concept ``earmark,'' it is for the community of Houston, Texas, and the 18th Congressional District more early childhood education, more homeland security dollars for a constable's office. It is more dollars for a mental health facility, and it is recognition of more technology for our local first responders. 
   So I rise today to express the dilemma, when we have three branches of government, to refute any accusations of the postures that Democrats are in. Democrats are fighters. It is because of a budget mark and a stance by this administration to demand $120 billion for a war that is not working that puts us in a position not to be able to service the needs of the American people.     
   So we will continue this fight and we will stand strong and tall for those who are in need. 
   And I look forward to the Military Success Act of 2007 that I have authored being debated on this floor to acknowledge that the military has finished their work, it's time to bring them home and to reward them in honor and medals for what they have done in Iraq and to ensure that the people of America receive a spending bill that serves the needs of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LOCAL PREPAREDNESS ACQUISITION ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3179, the Local Preparedness Acquisition Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative TOWNS. This important legislation amends title 40 of the United States Code to authorize the use of Federal supply schedules for the acquisition of law enforcement, security, and certain other related items by State and local governments. 
   In the post-September 11 era, with the advances in technology, communication and transportation, the likelihood of a situation escalating from an emergency to a disaster to a catastrophe has increased. This Nation is dependent upon the services of its first responders, and as such we cannot shirk responsibility for their well being when we put them in harm's way. Since the catastrophe of September 11, 2001, the need to anticipate and provide necessary resources to our emergency workers has been brought to Federal attention. 
   The Federal Government has a responsibility to plan ahead and develop a strategy of what will occur should a catastrophic event ever take place. As can be seen with the World Trade Center Worker and Volunteer Medical Monitoring Program, which was established in 2004 by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, it has been insecure in its funding since its inception and is estimated to be out of outpatient awards by the end of FY 2007. This type of haphazard funding and insecurity about the program's future is not what our first responders risked their lives for. 
   In order to enact any meaningful change, we must understand and identify the unique situations that face our first responders and then try to address any preventative pre-emptive actions that are possible. This includes Federal inquiry into the recognition and management of mental health defects, plans for short- and long-term health monitoring, quality of personal protective equipment, proposed research or lack thereof, and the national response plan. The necessity of inquiry into and improvement and solidification of these issues cannot be overstressed in looking to the future and how our Nation will deal with caring for the first responders during a disaster. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we witnessed in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Rita and Katrina, our Nation's first responders were not prepared for the realities of the catastrophes they faced. We can ensure future safety and protection of our first responders by making sure their personal protective equipment is sufficient to handle any future risks. It is our obligation to make sure the funds for the proper equipment is being received through Federal grant programs so that in the case of a catastrophe, they will be able to safely respond to hazardous materials, biological agents, and other harmful materials. 
   This legislation is important because it amends title 40 of the United States Code to provide necessary equipment to our Nation's first responders. In the wake of the tragedies of September 11 and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the necessity for the provision of appropriate technologies, including interoperable communications and the availability of emergency equipment, became painfully apparent. This legislation calls for the availability and provision of alarm and signal systems, facility management systems, firefighting and rescue equipment, law enforcement and security equipment, marine craft and related equipment, special purpose clothing, and related services. By amending title 40 of the United States Code, this legislation is an important step towards ensuring that America's first responders are adequately prepared for any situation that may arise. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support the passage of H.R. 3179 and call on my colleagues to do likewise because I strongly believe that it will strengthen our Nation's efforts to confront the disasters.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 643. I support this resolution because although six years have passed since that fateful, horrific day, the pain and agony and sense of loss still endures in the hearts and minds of the American people. More than 3,000 of our countrymen had the fullness of their lives snatched away from their families, their friends, and the communities they loved and that loved them. We can never forget what happened that day to the victims. Or to those who sacrificed their lives to save them. Or to our country, which suffered a wound to the body politic unlike any in previous history. And in remembering what happened to us six years ago, we are reminded what we must do now and in the future to redeem all of the lives lost that fateful day. 
   Mr. Speaker, on September 11, 2001, the Nation watched in horror as the World Trade Center was transformed into a human inferno that claimed thousands of innocent lives. 9/11 was a despicable act of faceless cowards who have no respect for human life. Across the United States and around the world, people of all ages and walks of life collectively united during a time of tremendous sorrow and despair. It was an unforgettable day that transformed the lives of many and united Americans in a way this Nation had not seen since World War II. 
   Mr. Speaker, during this commemoration Americans turn toward each other. We seek to embrace, we seek to love, we still mourn the nearly 3,000 Americans whose lives were viciously taken on September 11, 2001. I stand before this House today simply to offer my deepest sympathy and that of my constituents of the 18th Congressional District of the State of Texas. 
   Six years ago, in the immediate aftermath of the attacks on our country, many brave people  heroically, tirelessly, and courageously participated in an extraordinarily difficult and dangerous rescue and recovery effort, in many cases voluntarily putting their own well-being at risk. Others jeopardized their lives to bring the terrorist to justice or to bring justice to the terrorized. 
   The war in Afghanistan, Operation Enduring Freedom was a just war. An attack on one, was an attack on all. It was an attack on our way of life. It was an attack on our deepest and most cherished beliefs. It was an attack on the freedom and liberty embedded in the foundation of this Nation. Since that memorable day our war efforts have been deferred from its original purpose and many lives lost have yet to receive justice. Six years later and Osama bin Laden still roams free. American blood and treasure are being depleted for a country unyielding to change. 
   As Operation Enduring Freedom showed, a united America can never be defeated. The indomitable Armed Forces of the United States swiftly toppled the Taliban and liberated Afghanistan and was hard on the heels of Osama bin Laden, who was trapped in Tora Bora. But before they could bring this mass murderer to justice, they were inexplicably diverted to Iraq, where the President had launched a new war against an enemy that posed no immediate threat to the security of America and had no involvement in the attack of September 11. In dividing our armed forces between Afghanistan and Iraq, this Administration divided the American people and alienated friendly nations who were helping us to win the Global War on Terror. 
   Mr. Speaker, we will do everything in our power to prevent a tragedy like 9/11 from ever occurring again. Americans will not live in fear of a terrorist like Osama bin Laden. First responders should and will be equipped with all the tools necessary to meet the needs of the American people. Thus, today we celebrate the unsung heroes, and 
   the families who survived them, and rededicate ourselves to protecting and securing the lives of the American people from any future threats. 
   So horrific and traumatic were the events of September 11 that is engraved in our minds as well as our hearts. A day when time literally stood still and people from all walks of life came together. A day where many of us can vividly recall exactly where we were and what we were doing. September 11 was a day that shook the whole world witnessed. 
   Mr. Speaker, throughout the history of the United States there have been few events that have had transformative impact on the people of the country. For my parents' generation the death of President Franklin Roosevelt was such an occasion. For my generation, the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963 is a moment that lives with us forever. The explosion of the Shuttle Challenger in 1986 left a traumatic and indelible impression on my children's generation. The morning of September 11, 2001 is a day all living Americans will remember forever. 
   Today, six years later, my heart still grieves for those who perished on flights United Airlines 93, American Airlines 77, American Airlines 11, and United Airlines 175. When the sun rose on the morning of September 11, we were all oblivious to the devastation that would later plague the nation. None of us knew that it would end in an inferno in the magnificent World Trade Center Towers in New York City and the Pentagon and in the grassy fields of Shanksville, Pennsylvania. How I wish we could have hugged and kissed and held each of the victims one last time. 
   I stand here remembering those who still suffer, whose hearts still ache over the loss of so many innocent and interrupted lives. My prayer is that those who lost a father, a mother, a husband, a wife, a child, or a friend will in the days and years ahead take comfort in the certain knowledge that they have gone on to claim the greatest prize, a place in the Lord's loving arms. And down here on the ground, their memory will never be forgotten. 
   We will always remember September 11 as the day that brought the whole world together. Many people lost their loved ones. Mr. Speaker, as hard as it is to believe, out of a tragedy so overwhelming and horrific, something good and great emerged. In the midst of September 11, there were no Republicans or Democrats. There were no Northerners or Southerners or West or East Coasters. We were not Red State or Blue State. We were all simply Americans. On that day, we were united in our shock and anger and sadness. More importantly, we were united in our resolve to defend our country and protect the freedoms that have made America the greatest country in the history of the world. 
   As we continue to pray for the families of the victims and reflect upon that defining moment in our history, we are inspired by the fact that we are a people determined to defend our way of life. But for the better part of six years, we had allowed ourselves to be held hostage by the fear and anger that overwhelmed us on September 11. Over time hearts have healed and a new sense of hope and security has developed amongst the people of this nation. Since that horrific day many lives have continued to be sacrificed and it is time to bring our troops home and unite once more as a nation that serves as the home of the brave and the free. 
   As we move forward we hold true to the fact that 9/11 is a day that we will never forget. September 11 will never and should never be just another day in the hearts and minds of all people of the United States; but rather a day to reflect on the lives lost and the undying hope that prevails within the hearts and minds of the American people. Although the future is uncertain we can hold true to the strong will and compassion that united our nation during a day meant to divide and destroy us. We, the 110th Congress have an obligation to protect the American people from harm and ensure that a tragedy such as 9/11 never happens again. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe all Americans want their country to remain safe, free, and invulnerable to another cowardly attack like the one we experienced six years ago. We owe that much to the Americans who lost and gave their lives. We owe it to them to ensure that their children and loved ones will never again experience such pain, suffering, and loss. We can do this. We must do this. But to bring this new future into being, we need a new direction from the present course. 
   I urge all members to join me in supporting H. Res. 643. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEMOCRACY, FREEDOM, AND JUSTICE WILL REIGN IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come to the floor today as we commemorated one day early the 6 years since 9/11. 
   Most of us just came from the steps of the east side of the United States Capitol bringing back memories of how we went together, united, on that day, September 11, 2001, to show the world and to reinforce America's values that we would not be deterred, democracy would reign, freedom would reign, and justice would reign in this Nation. 
   But I come this evening to again express my deepest sympathy for those families that still mourn and those who still bear the emotional scars and, of course, those who remain injured from that fateful day. I remember being here in the United States Capitol in a meeting. Of course, our minds would never have imagined and could not conceive of what we were about to expect as we heard people running through the Capitol knocking on doors, not being able to explain just what was happening. 
   Of course, those who wished to continue the day's business did not understand that our lives would never be the same. We finally recognized that there was something out of the ordinary happening. As we, in essence, escaped from this building without much information or understanding, watching over our shoulder the billowing black smoke of the Pentagon, rumors abounded. There were thoughts, suggestions, rumors or facts that planes were heading for a number of places, including the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. 
   On that day, we saw the loss of lives of those in the Twin Towers and the airplanes in the skies. We are reminded of those souls who steered that plane away from the United States Capitol that landed in the fields of Pennsylvania. We hold all of these souls dear to our heart. Over the weekend, I was able to catch, as I was passing by our television, a documentary on engine 54 in New York. It is my understanding that all 15 of those that were on duty on that day lost their lives. 
   Today I stand to salute all of the first responders and to highlight the firefighters who went into those buildings and never came out, and all other rescuers who likewise went into the buildings and never came out. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, we vowed, after the creation of this committee, to never have this happen again. Unfortunately, there is much work to be done. We challenge, and we are challenged, to be dutiful and diligent in making sure that cargo on airplanes does not get unscreened by TSA, that we are assured that airports in the front and the back are secure, and that we are looking keenly at America's transportation system of buses, trains, and highways. We owe that to the American people. 
   Then, Mr. Speaker, as we listened to General Petraeus and to Ambassador Crocker today, we owe them a real war on terror and that is to be able to join with the world's allies, our allies, and fight the war on terror, fight it and win it in Afghanistan, find Osama bin Laden and bring a political reconciliation to Iraq so that we can bring our soldiers home. Fueling the fires of Al Qaeda and allowing them to come to Iraq in 2005 does not pay tribute to those who died on 9/11. 
   As I hold in my hand the American flag, I stand here today to recommit myself and to ask my colleagues as they come to this floor to recommit themselves to those lives that were lost, those families that mourn, that we will be a Nation united under truth, fighting the war on terror, making that our number one priority, and that we will pay tribute to the United States military, those who have served in Iraq, Afghanistan and places around the world, and make a final and important decision that the political reconciliation for Iraq must be in the hands of a sovereign people and a sovereign nation of Iraq. 
   It is time now to bring our soldiers home. The war on terror continues. We will never be daunted by that. We stand against the terrorists. But we must do it rightfully and truthfully. We must join together, win the war on terror, bring our soldiers home so that war can be broadened and we can be victorious on behalf of the people of the United States and those who lost their lives in that war. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA VOTING RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, today is Tax Day and it is the day that D.C. residents pay their Federal income taxes. Yet D.C. residents remain without a vote. D.C. residents enjoy many of the benefits of U.S. citizenship but they lack the vote. 
   The rest of the Nation votes as District residents pay their taxes and serve in wars abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan. Andy Shallal, a D.C. citizen said it best, ``People like me of Iraqi ancestry and even my son, who was born in the United States, are entitled to vote in the Iraqi's election due in large part to the service of the citizens of the District of Columbia and other Americans who have fought and died in Iraq.'' In spite of D.C. residents' service in foreign wars and even in the American Revolution, and every war since where U.S. was involved, D.C. residents cannot vote in their own country. 
   Tax Day is a bitter reminder to the Nation that the founders of our country who staged their revolution for representation would then deny representation to residents of their very  own capital city. Professor Viet Dinh, President Bush's former assistant attorney general for constitutional matters, has wiped away the major argument that because the District is not a state, its American citizens cannot vote in the House by detailing the many ways in which ``since 1805 the Supreme Court has recognized that Congress has the authority to treat the District as a state and Congress has repeatedly exercised this authority.'' My favorite is the 16th amendment which requires only that citizens of states pay Federal income taxes. Why then have District residents continuously been taxed without representation? 
   There is a terrible racial stain that has been at the core of the denial of the rights of D.C. citizens. Congress required the same racial segregation in schools and public accommodations in D.C. and other parts of the South until the 1954 Brown decision. As one southern Senator put it, ``The Negroes ..... flocked in ..... and there was only one way out ..... and that was to deny ..... suffrage entirely to every human being in the District.'' 
   Former Republican Senator Edward Brooke, a native Washingtonian and the Nation's first popularly elected black Senator wrote, ``The experience of living in a segregated city and of serving in our segregated armed forces perhaps explains why my party's work on the Voting Rights Act reauthorization last year and on the pending D.C. House Voting Rights Act has been so important to me personally. The irony of course, is that I had to leave my hometown to get representation in Congress and to become a Member.'' 
   Today, on Tax Day, we need to move to abolish the irony and the tragedy of the many who have come to the Nation's capital seeking freedom for well over 200 years. It is on this day, that D.C. residents pay their Federal income taxes without a vote. 
   Presently, only three votes are needed for Senate passage of the D.C. Voting Rights Bill. I am a supporter of the bill in the House. I appeal to your conscience and ask for your vote so that finally there will be a vote for your fellow Americans here, who have paid for this precious right many times over in blood and tears. Support the voting rights bill today.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAN -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairwoman, MAXINE WATERS. I would say I am delighted to be part of the Out-of-Iraq Caucus, but that is not the appropriate term. I am delighted, however, to join my colleagues, Chairwoman Waters and Congresswoman BARBARA LEE and the other members who have participated and submitted their statement. 
   I wanted to join my colleagues because it has been a very long journey. I remind Congresswoman Waters in the fall of 2002, we were working hard for people to study the resolution being put before them. We garnered some 133-plus votes to vote in opposition to the then-Iraq resolution. 
   I want to speak constitutionally and why this special order and the position that Members are taking in opposing any preemptive attack or invasion of Iran and standing solidly against the perceived authority that the President may have. 
   Frankly, if we look at the 2002 resolution, we will find that it can be assessed that the President's authority  has expired. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. Elements of the resolution required that. The government has changed. There has been a democratic election, and there may be some question as to whether the adherence of the U.N. Security Council resolution is still part of that 2002 war resolution. But I would argue that there have been so many resolutions in the U.N. we could also concede the point that we have protected or adhered to those resolutions. 
   I truly believe that we are at such a point in history that any actions by the President would warrant extreme actions; or I should not suggest extreme, I should suggest constitutional actions by this Congress. It may warrant raising issues of impeachment. The reason I say that is to use the War Powers Act in a way that ignores the constitutional privilege and right of this Congress to declare war, I believe, is not doing well by the American people. 
   We already know the results of a war without end, the Iraq war, that is costing $339 million a day, that has already gone past a trillion dollars, that has seen 9,500 of our soldiers injured or maimed, sometimes injured or maimed for life, to see 4,000-plus die. It is a war without end. 
   Frankly, the question has to become what is the President's goal and intent if he has an idea that Iran is the next target. Has he looked to diplomacy and looked to the question of working with China or Russia to contain Iran? Has he looked at negotiation with the individuals in Iran who really may be interested in some sort of resolution? Is he buying into the constant refrain that Iran is providing the weapons in Iraq? Is he also looking to the perceived friendship between the Iraq government and the Iran government? None of the above. 
   What I sense in the administration is a percolating attempt to attack Iran, and that percolating attempt based upon the representation of nuclear weapons. I don't want Iran to possess the capacity to engage and to utilize nuclear weapons, nor am I interested in protecting an Iran that has been hostile to the world. I am not interested in coddling terrorists. But we can clearly see that the policies in Iraq have not deterred the terrorists. They have only grown the terrorists. And I would question whether the only way to create peace in the Mid East is to again attack another country in the Mid East. 
   It is important that we continue to engage for two distinct states, the Palestinian and Israel negotiations. I would have hoped that this administration would have spent their time following through on the road map that the President announced some few years back. I believe that we were distracted in Iraq. We were distracted in Iraq from Afghanistan and from solving the Palestinian-Israeli question. 
   So I rise today to join my colleagues and say not on my watch, absolutely not. The statistics of the war in Iraq are devastating. Yes, I am prepared today to declare a military success in Iraq. A military success means that our soldiers on one and two and three and four redeployments have done everything the Commander in Chief has asked them to do. Saddam Hussein is gone, there have been democratic elections, and U.N. resolutions adhered to. Bring those soldiers home, declare a military success, and make the statement to the American people that we will never recklessly invade another country. 
   Iran is somewhat different from Iraq; and, therefore, may have a different story to tell. It may not be the easy route that they might have thought Iraq was. But frankly, my view is that we have crossed the constitutional bounds and that as I yield back to the distinguished chairwoman, I simply believe that we have come to a crisis point that this Congress must accept its duty and say to the President that no war can be declared without a vote of the United States Congress under the Constitution, and I would join with my colleagues, the chairman of the Human Right Subcommittee on International Issues of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Delahunt, to suggest that the War Powers Act should be amended and should now be that it can only be utilized by a President when the Nation is under imminent attack and when there is necessity to go forward to protect our citizens. Other than that, that War Powers Act should be amended, it should be drawn down, and we should stand with the Constitution. No invasion of Iran on my watch, and constitutional implications for the President of the United States if such attack is proposed. 
   I thank the distinguished gentlelady for her leadership in the Out-of-Iraq Caucus.  
   I join my colleagues here tonight to discuss a very important issue: the possibility that this Administration may be intent on leading us into another war in the Middle East, this time against Iran. I would like to thank my colleague Congresswoman Waters for organizing this special order on Iran. Even as we remain engaged in a war in Iraq to which there is no military solution, this Administration has begun beating the drum for war with Iran. I strongly urge my congressional colleagues to send a clear message to President Bush that he does not currently have authorization to use military force against Iran. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that using a military strike against Iran would be a colossal error. As a nation, we are still paying an unacceptably high price for this Administration's ill-advised and ill-executed invasion of Iraq in March 2003. In 2002, when I voted against the Joint Resolution to Authorize the Use of United States Armed Forces Against Iraq, I did so because I believed that this would be a war without end. I believed this resolution would trap us in a conflict that, like the Vietnam War, would consume American resources and lives without tangible yield. Unfortunately for the people of both this country and Iraq, this has proven true. 
   As a nation, we have already paid an enormous price for the war in Iraq. We have squandered an exponentially increasing amount of money, and, worst of all, lost an unacceptably large number of American lives. However, the over 4,000 U.S. casualties and the $3,919 per second ($123.6 billion per year) we are spending in Iraq have bought neither peace nor security. 
   Mr. Speaker, even as our troops are caught in the midst of instability and civil war in Iraq, the President has begun the march to war with Iran. We cannot compound the mistakes of the Iraq war with the even bigger mistake of opening up a second military conflict in the Middle East. And yet, the Administration has begun to set the stage for a U.S. attack on Iranian military or nuclear facilities by issuing strong statements about Iran's intervention in Iraq, and using inflammatory rhetoric against Iran in a similar fashion to the run-up to the Iraq war. 
   In recent weeks, the Administration has increasingly referred to negative behavior of the Iranian regime. Despite contrary findings by the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), Bush has increasingly stated that Iran is building nuclear weapons. The Administration has also cited Iran as a cause of instability in Iraq, and has argued that Iran is killing U.S. soldiers and supplying weapons, training, and funding. 
   I certainly believe that the current state of affairs in Iran, and specifically those issues relating to U.S. sanctions on Iran and the security of the region, are extremely important and in desperate need of discussion. As a Member of Congress, I find Iran's support of terrorist organizations, pursuit of nuclear weapons, and dismal human rights record to be extremely worrisome. However, I am also concerned by what appears to be movement by this Administration toward yet another war in the Gulf region, without having first exhausted diplomatic means of addressing any conflicts. 
   I have long been an advocate of a free, independent, and democratic Iran. I believe in an Iran that holds free elections, follows the rule of law, and is home to a vibrant civil society; an Iran that is a responsible member of the region and the international community, particularly with respect to the 
   proliferation of nuclear weapons. An Iran that, unfortunately, we do not see today. 
   The only effective way to achieve lasting peace and prosperity in the region, along with bringing about reforms in Iran's polity, is to assist the Iranian people in their quest to achieve political, social, and religious liberty. Every government can be judged with the way in which it treats its ethnic and religious minorities, and the current Iranian government gets a failing grade for its treatment of its many and diverse minorities. 
   The controversy surrounding Iran's procurement of nuclear energy is cause for great concern; however, the administration's avoidance of any and all diplomatic relations with Iran is cause for greater alarm. Moreover, the current rhetoric from the Bush Administration regarding war with Iran is both counterproductive and highly inflammatory. While full diplomatic, political, and economic relations between the U.S. and Iran cannot be normalized unless and until enforceable safeguards are put in place to prevent the weaponization of Iran's nuclear program, these policy objectives should not constitute pre-conditions for any diplomatic dialogue.  
   Establishing a diplomatic dialogue with the Government of Iran and deepening relationships with the Iranian people would help foster greater understanding between the people of Iran and the people of the United States and would enhance the stability and the security of the Persian Gulf region. Doing so would reduce the threat of the proliferation or use of nuclear weapons in the region, while advancing other U.S. foreign policy objectives in the region. The significance of establishing and sustaining diplomatic relations with Iran cannot be over-emphasized. Avoidance and military intervention cannot be the means through which we resolve this looming crisis. 
   Mr. Speaker, Middle East experts have repeatedly stated that a U.S. attack on Iran would have disastrous consequences. Among possible outcomes, many experts agree, would be an Iranian counter-attack on U.S. and Israeli interests in the region or throughout the world. Such an attack could also lead to a greater Middle East War, and would undoubtedly bring with it a greater loss of life and financial burden. 
   Mr. Speaker, now is the time that we need to be looking to ending one Middle East conflict, not to beginning another. We need to work to rebuild our standing in the international community, not to raise further enmity in the Middle East and beyond by attacking another nation. I strongly urge my colleagues to speak out against any potential military strike in Iran.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAN -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If the gentlelady would yield, I just came back from Iraq, and you are so right. After going and I think getting a very wide view of the status of affairs there, clearly as we have understood or understand, the government is leaning on the captains of our military. Ranks at the captain level are like the government. There is no seeming intent or plan that would cease the Maliki government from leaning on the United States military, using it as a crutch. So there is no evidence that suggests that they don't intend to have permanent military bases. In fact, every indication from the presentations of the military and others is that they would have it. I believe they are in violation of maybe not the rules of this House, but certainly the respect of the three branches of government. 
   Finally, I would say that I have legislation that declares a military success, that lists the criteria under which our soldiers went in, and moves it to a diplomatic surge. We should not fool ourselves. The intent is a permanent base that allows them to do the preemptive strike that you are speaking of against any country in the Mideast, and in particular Iran. I believe we have to stop it now, and we have to stop it forever, and we have to lean on the Constitution because we have seen over the last couple of years the Constitution ignored, and that simply cannot stand in this place called America.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5719, TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE AND SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1102, the Rule to Consider H.R. 5719, ``Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008''. This legislation, introduced by Chairman CHARLES B. RANGEL (D-NY) and Oversight Subcommittee Chairman JOHN LEWIS (D-GA), modernizes Internal Revenue Service functions to make filing taxes simpler while improving outreach to taxpayers. 
   This Rule allows considerations: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE FAIR HOUSING ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1095, ``Commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act'', introduced by a fellow Texan, Representative AL GREEN. 
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is the nation's housing agency committed to increasing homeownership, particularly among minorities; creating affordable housing opportunities for low-income Americans; and supporting the homeless, elderly, people with disabilities and people living with AIDS. The Department also promotes economic and community development and enforces the nation's fair housing laws. 
   However, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), more than 10,000 people filed housing discrimination complaints last year, mostly from persons with disabilities. HUD also found that race-based housing discrimination was the second most frequent reason individuals filed complaints. 
   Of the more than 10,000 complaints filed last year, 43 percent alleged discrimination against persons with disabilities while 37 percent alleged racial discrimination. Most complainants claimed to be victims of discrimination in the terms and conditions of the sale or rental of housing, or outright refusal to rent. 
   The Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at HUD stated that ``Forty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, an alarming number of families are still being denied housing and still need the protections this landmark law offers.'' Assistant Secretary Kim Kendrick's remarks only underscore the importance of HUD's continued enforcement, instruction, and outreach activities to ensure that all Americans have equal access to housing opportunities. 
   Currently HUD has placed fair housing advertisements on more than 900 movie screens throughout the country. These advertisements inform viewers that it is unlawful to discriminate in the sale, rental, or financing of housing and provided HUD's toll-free telephone number, for those that may have experienced or witnessed unlawful discrimination. 
   Another part of HUD's outreach in this area is its training program, Fair Housing Accessibility FIRST, which has trained 1,351 individuals in 22 training sessions in 17 states on the Fair Housing Act's design and construction requirements for multifamily housing. 
   TEXAS 
   On March 27th, HUD announced that the Texas State Program and the cities of Houston and New Braunfels will receive a total of $234,868,077 to support community development and produce more affordable housing. HUD's annual funding will also provide down payment assistance to first-time homebuyers; assist individuals and families who might otherwise be living on the streets; and offer real housing solutions for individuals with HIV/AIDS. 
   This funding will help Texas to reconstruct its neighborhoods and affordable housing stock by helping communities to improve their infrastructure or assisting families to purchase their first home, HUD is helping improve neighborhoods from the ground up. 
   The funding announced includes: Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds; HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) funding; American Dream Down payment assistance; Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG); and, 
   Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA). 
   Since 1974, HUD's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program has provided more than $120 billion to state and local governments to target their own community development priorities. The rehabilitation of affordable housing and the improvement of public facilities have traditionally been the largest uses of CDBG although the program is also an important catalyst for job growth and business opportunities. Annual CDBG funds are distributed to communities according to a statutory formula based on a community's population, poverty, and age of its housing stock, and extent of overcrowded housing.  
   HOME (HOME Investment Partnerships Program) is the largest federal block grant to state and local governments designed exclusively to produce affordable housing for low-income families. Since 1992, more than 600 communities have completed more than 834,000 affordable housing units, including 352,000 for new homebuyers. In addition, 186,000 tenants have received direct rental assistance. 
    The American Dream Down payment Initiative (ADDI) helps first-time homebuyers with the biggest hurdles to homeownership--down payment and closing costs. The program was created to assist low-income first-time homebuyers in purchasing single-family homes by providing funds for down payment, closing costs, and rehabilitation carried out in conjunction with the assisted home purchase. Since the program's inception, ADDI has assisted nearly 29,000 families to purchase their first home. 
   Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) helps local communities to meet the basic shelter needs of homeless individuals and families. These grants also provide transitional housing and a variety of support services designed to move the homeless away from a life on the street toward permanent housing. This block grant program, along with more than $14 million HUD awarded New Orleans and Jefferson Parish by competition, helps thousands of local homeless assistance programs to help those who would otherwise be living on the streets. 
   HUD's Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) grants are distributed to states and cities based on the number of AIDS cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The grants provide resources for operating community residences and providing rental assistance and support services to individuals with HIV/AIDS and their families. In addition, the HOPWA program also helps many communities develop strategic AIDS housing plans and fill in gaps in local systems of care. A stable home environment is a critical component for low-income persons managing complex drug therapies and potential side effects from their treatments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. To the distinguished chairman, let me thank you for the litany and list of achievements of human rights that you have achieved on this floor. And I appreciate the leadership of my subcommittee Chair, Ms. Zoe Lofgren, on many hard issues that have come to her attention over the time of her tenure as chairperson. And as a member of the subcommittee, I am grateful for her leadership. And working with the minority, I thank them on this instance for the cooperation on H.R. 5570. It is an especially unique and important legislative initiative as we make note not only of the many religious leaders in this Nation, but as we make note of the visit of the Aga Khan that, who has spent time in the State of Texas and his followers who have had the privilege of seeing him for the first time in 10 years in the United States, someone who has funded major humanitarian efforts around the world, and of course, the people of New York and Washington, D.C. have the privilege of hosting the Pope in these coming weeks and certainly in Washington. 
   Religion is special, and is special to this Nation. This legislation is a special immigrant visa which allows qualified religious workers to immigrate to the U.S. and later become citizens if they so chose and meet the qualifications. The other is a nonimmigrant visa which allows qualified religious workers to entry temporarily and perform services in the U.S. for a prescribed period. It has already been noted that the actions of these religious workers may find themselves in parishes, mosques or synagogues, or really simply in the community, as Mother Theresa was in India. Both of these visas may be granted to both ministers and nonminister religious workers. 
   Yes, there is humanitarian work to be done in the United States. They work in some of our most impoverished communities. And they are sincere in their social and religious humanitarian work. The bill has come under closer scrutiny because of the allegations of abuse and fraud among the foreign petitioners. But I am glad that this bill will provide for a 7-year extension of the program, and it will require DHS to promulgate regulations to eliminate fraud. 
   We must work together with the Department of Homeland Security, and I do appreciate the work of Dr. Gonzalez to impress upon them that their task is, in fact, to secure America and that they must move quickly on these regulations. If the regulations are not in place by December 31, 2008, to reduce fraud, the program will only be extended for 15 months through January 1, 2010. But if DHS can get the regulations in place, it is automatically extended to January 1, 2016. 
   I think this is a great start. But I ask my colleagues to consider the expansion of this bill, one to authorize it permanently, but also to look at a small area of which I hope to write legislation on, and that is the insistence that the religious person coming must be of the same religion of that which the person is petitioning for. 
   I had this circumstance in my district. Grace Community Church is a church with thriving multiple ministries that wanted to bring a young man and his family, a bilingual pastor, to speak to their Spanish congregation and to minister to our Hispanic community in Texas. It was a very, very tough task to address the question of the denials that he received because he was not the same religion of Grace Community Church. He had the same faith. He believed in a higher power. He wanted to do missionary work. The church was legitimate. It had long years in the community. The father of the young man had worked with the pastor of Grace Community Church. But yet we could not get a visa except for the gracious reconsideration of the Department of Homeland Security. 
   We must reduce fraud. But we can't reduce faith. And when individuals come and want to be missionaries even in this land, we should recognize and grant the opportunity. We can reduce fraud by making sure the institutions exist, the time frame is a time frame that is credible, the individuals are credible, the time that the visa is issued is reviewed, if you will, or overseen by the Department of Homeland Security. But actually, we should encourage those who wish to come to this Nation for good reasons and those who come under this visa are doing so. 
   So in conclusion, I do want to note that we are celebrating the authorization of this bill this week for very special reasons. But we are also celebrating it because we believe that those who want to do good should be granted the opportunity. As we go forward on this legislation, I am hoping that we will look at some of the small fractures that keep good people from  coming to the United States, worshiping, practicing, serving and working with a great church like Grace Community and others who may wish to bring individuals who may not have the same religious affiliation but have the same belief in the greater goodness and the greater power. 
   Let me yield back by asking my colleagues to support H.R. 5570. And I thank my colleagues for the great work that they have done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5570, the ``Religious Worker Visa Program Extension Act of 2008'', introduced by the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Representative Zoe Lofgren. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill. The religious worker visa program allows U.S. religious denominations to fill critical religious worker positions for which there are no qualified candidates in the U.S. with qualified religious workers abroad. The program provides for two types of visas. 
   The one is a special immigrant visa, which allows qualified religious workers to immigrate to the U.S. and later become citizens if they so choose and meet the qualification. The other is the non-immigrant visa, which allows qualified religious workers to enter temporarily and perform services in the U.S. for a proscribed period. Both of these visas may be granted to both ministers and non-minister religious workers. 
   This bill has come under closer scrutiny recently because of allegations of abuse and fraud among the foreign petitioners. H.R. 5570 would provide for a seven-year extension of the program and it would require DHS to promulgate regulations to eliminate fraud. If the Department of Homeland Security does not issue regulations to eliminate or reduce fraud in the religious worker program by December 31, 2008, the program is only extended for 15 months through January 1, 2010. If the Secretary of Homeland Security issues the regulation then the program is automatically extended until January 1, 2016. 
   While I support this bill, I would have liked to have this bill be expanded so that a religious worker does not have to work for a religious institution of the same denomination. Presently, a religious worker must be of the same religion as the institution by which the worker is employed. Recently this has created problems. 
   Pastor Riggle from Grace Community Church in my district in Houston, Texas contacted my office concerning Dr. David Scarpeta who needed a religious worker visa to work in his church. USCIS initially denied Dr. Scarpeta's religious worker petition because Dr. Scarpeta was not a member of Pastor Riggle's church. 
   In my view, Dr. Scarpeta should not have been excluded from the religious worker program merely because he was not a member of the church that was sponsoring him. This is inconsistent with religious work as I know it in this country. Often religious workers from different denominations and religious workers from different denominations work together in the religious vineyard. 
   Because I thought the law as interpreted was draconian and far too limited in its application, I worked tirelessly with USCIS to ensure that Dr. Scarpeta would be able to work for Grace Community Church. Through my efforts, I was able to get resolution of that case and now Dr. Scarpeta is an active member of the Grace Community Church. 
   Madam Speaker I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to examine this bill and recognize that it benefits the religious worker and Americans. I fully support what Representative Lofgren and the Subcommittee on Immigration, of which I am a member, have done in the area of immigration.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AMERICA, WE ARE ON YOUR SIDE ON TAX DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, today is Tax Day, April 15, and that's why the Democrats have risen today to be able to tell the American people we're on your side. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008 may cost $22 million, but I can assure you that it pales in comparison to the money that my friends are spending on the unending war in Iraq. 
   I am glad to stand with the taxpayers of America, making sure that the elderly and the disabled are exempted from liability for employment taxes or payments to home care service providers. They deserve our respect, and today we give it to them. 
   I am glad that we are requiring a written notice to taxpayers of the eligibility of the earned income tax credit. It's a shame that so many think that there is so much fraud for hardworking Americans who don't file for their taxes who deserve it, and I'm delighted to stand with Americans to repeal the authority of the IRS to enter into private debt collection, those guys who have harassed the elderly, the shut-ins, hardworking Americans because they are private bounty hunters. 
   Today we stand with hardworking Americans. We will do so as well. And we honor our troops, declare the war's end, bring them home and reinvest in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAQ TIMETABLE AND FUNDING, CONGRESS NEEDS TO PASS CONFERENCE REPORT -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, nine more soldiers are dead, and our soldiers can claim victory in Iraq. Madam Speaker, even after losing thousands of American lives and spending billions of taxpayer dollars, the Bush administration continues to demand an open-ended commitment of American troops in Iraq with no exit plan and no strategy. 
   But this Democratic Congress, the leadership of Speaker Pelosi, understands the responsibility of war. We understand the commitment to the American people, and, yes, we understand the needs of national security. Retired military officers support our plan and the new direction for Iraq to begin to redeploy our troops to begin to bring them home. 
   Secretary Gates has gone to Iraq trying to stop the bleeding, but he believes that congressional debate is helpful, and he has said that the clock is ticking. Can the Bush administration understand that? The Pentagon has confirmed, through a Congressional Research Service report, that the President's comments about us stopping funding, the Congress stopping funding, is absolutely wrong. 
   We need to save lives. We need to restore the confidence and the leadership in Iraq, but we need to claim victory for our soldiers. They have done their job. It's time to bring them home now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SMALL BUSINESS LENDING IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 1332, the Small Business Lending Improvements Act. As a member of Congress, I have been a strong supporter of our Nation's small businesses. Already this week, we have debated bills seeking to ensure that America remains competitive in the global economy, and, in doing so, we have recognized the importance of ongoing technological innovation. Small businesses comprise an important segment of this process of development; by acting as a catalyst within our economy, they spur growth for all sectors of business. 
   Small businesses represent the American dream, and they define the American economy. These businesses currently account for 95 percent of all employers, create half of our gross domestic product, and provide three out of four new jobs in this country. However, to keep this sector of the economy thriving, small businesses require access to loans to initiate, develop, and expand their range of goods and services. The Small Business Administration (SBA), a Federal organization that aids small businesses with loan and development programs, is a key provider of support to small businesses. The SBA's main loan program accounts for 30 percent of all long-term small business borrowing in America. 
   By streamlining the SBA's two largest finance programs directed at small businesses, H.R. 1332 would offer these businesses the crucial tools that they need to be successful in today's marketplace. This bill gives the SBA authority to 
   contribute funds to reduce the burden associated with borrower and lender fees on 7(a) loans, making these loans more economical, without upsetting the program's current stability. 
   H.R. 1332 also creates several new loan programs under the 7(a) umbrella. It specifically reaches out to rural lenders, reducing their 7(a) loan paperwork. It makes permanent the Community Express Program, granting improved access to capital for socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses. It recognizes the I need for doctors and dentists in federally designated Health Professional Shortage Areas, and establishes a program to reduce borrower and lender fees in these areas. Finally, this bill offers help to our returning veterans, those who have served our Nation bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan, to establish and expand their own businesses. In addition to all these programs, H.R. 1332 seeks to establish a Small Bank Outreach division within SBA. This new division would provide direct support to community banks participating in the 7(a) program, and would enable these local banks to make loans to a wider range of deserving businesses. It would also work to strengthen local economies by providing lenders deemed Certified Development Companies with a range of tools to grant loans to businesses within their own communities. 
   As we consider what we as a Congress might do to make our Nation more economically secure, and to continue to augment our position within the global economy, it is crucial that we focus on the importance of small businesses. Small business owners are leaders in innovation, creative business operations and new technologies and products. I continue to believe that the success of our economy is dependent on these businesses. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and to continue to assist small business owners to realize their potential. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON THE LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE GENOCIDE IN DARFUR -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I can rise enthusiastically to thank both Mr. Ackerman for managing this bill and his leadership and certainly sensitivity to these issues. I thank my good friend and colleague, Ranking Member Smith, who has much roadway in front of him and behind him on these issues dealing with human rights. I am very proud to be a strong member of the Human Rights Caucus that has worked consistently on addressing these issues. And, I thank my friend and colleague, Congresswoman BARBARA LEE. We have worked on many, many issues together. 
   I am reminded of our first Presidential congressional trip to Africa, three women who went to address then, some almost 10 years ago, the devastation of HIV/AIDS, and we have pursued these issues of empowerment.     
   There is no doubt, there is no quarreling with the fact that 450,000 have died. The janjaweed is alive and well. It is important that Members of Congress have been to the Darfur region and the south. 
   I am reminded of the time that I sat on the ground in Chad with refugees fleeing from the Sudan, and looked in the faces of women who had been brutalized and raped only because they left their village to get firewood to survive. That is what is going on today in 2007. 
   I also remember the time I can say on the floor of the House that I was banished, and not as some Members have been over the years, given visas to enter into Darfur and had to be utilizing extraordinary means. This is inhuman. This is not civil. This is not a nation that is part of the world family. 
   This resolution is very straightforward: Get your friends to talk to you about ensuring the United Nations can do its work. I ask that this resolution be supported so the raped women can have relief and response.  
   Madam Speaker, the current crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan is of paramount importance. Although Americans may differ greatly on many issues, there is a widespread and broad-based consensus among Democrats and Republicans alike that the ongoing genocide in Darfur is intolerable and must be ended. Today we are presented with a great opportunity to work in a bipartisan fashion to achieve a humanitarian result in responding to the overwhelming suffering in Darfur. 
   Not since the Rwandan genocide of 1994 has the world seen such a systematic campaign of displacement, starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror as we are witnessing in Darfur for the last three years. At least 400,000 people have been killed; more than 2 million innocent civilians have been forced to flee their homes and now live in displaced-persons camps in Sudan or in refugee camps in neighboring Chad; and more than 3.5 million men, women, and children are completely reliant on international aid for survival. 
   Unless the world stirs from its slumber and takes concerted and decisive action to relieve this suffering, the ongoing genocide in Darfur will stand as one of the blackest marks on humankind for centuries to come. The people of Darfur cannot wait. The time has come for decisive leadership from the United States. 
   It has been more than 2 years since my colleagues and I in the Congressional Black Caucus Darfur Task Force met with Secretary Colin Powell. We pressed successfully for the Administration to declare that the campaign of ethnic cleansing and atrocities against civilians in Sudan is genocide. The atrocities are committed primarily by the government of Sudan and its allied Janjaweed militias. 
   It has been more than a year since I flew to Chad, walked across the border to Sudan, and met with African Union troops who pleaded for more peacekeeping authority and the resources to protect the refugees from violence, rather than merely monitor it. After returning  from that Congressional delegation, I worked with other Members of Congress to secure increased funding to aid the thousands of Sudanese displaced to refugee camps in Chad and to provide additional funding to assist Chad in responding to the humanitarian crisis. 
   It has been almost two years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1556 demanding that the government of Sudan disarm the Janjaweed. This demand was later followed by Resolution 1706, which authorizes a 20,000 strong U.N. peacekeeping force. 
   It has been 9 months since the Darfur Peace Agreement was brokered in May 2006 between the government of Sudan and one faction of Darfur rebels. 
   However, signs of progress have recently emerged, even if it has come too late for the dead. The Sudanese government agreed to let a 3,500-person-strong United Nations peacekeeping force enter the country and join the African Union troops already there. It made the decision under pressure and only after months of unwarranted backtracking and delay. 
   But the Sudanese government has resisted the U.N.'s efforts to send 20,000 peacekeepers to Darfur. Let me be clear: the difference between a small, targeted force and a substantial deployment is no mere sticking point. It is absolutely essential. 
   It is essential to stopping the Arab militias from continuing to perpetuate a genocide. It is essential to clearing the path for crucial food and water and health supplies to reach refugee camps. And it is essential because injustice is only really addressed when it is obliterated, not when it is slowed to an excruciating trickle of displacement, harassment, and disrupted lives. We must have that larger U.N. force in Sudan. The international community has spoken with one voice but more pressure needs to be applied on Khartoum. 
   This resolution urges those who may have the most influence, the Arab League and its member states, to declare the systematic torture, rape, and displacement of Darfurians a genocide; to support and accept U.N. peacekeepers to enforce the ceasefire, protect civilians, and ensure access to humanitarian assistance in Darfur; and to work with the United Nations, the African Union and the United States Presidential Special Envoy for Sudan, Andrew Natsios, to bring about peace and stability to Darfur, the refugee camps, and along the Chadian border. 
   H. Con. Res. 7 urges the League of Arab States to: (1) declare the systematic torture, rape, and displacement of Darfurians a genocide; (2) pass a resolution to support and accept U.N. peacekeepers to enforce the ceasefire, protect civilians, and ensure access to humanitarian assistance in Darfur; and (3) work with the United Nations, the African Union and the United States Presidential Special Envoy for Sudan, Andrew Natsios, to bring about peace and stability to Darfur, the refugee camps, and along the Chadian border. 
   Nevertheless the violence continues; indeed, the violence is escalating. This violence is making it even more dangerous, if not impossible, for most of the millions of displaced persons to return to their homes and for humanitarian relief agencies to bring food and medical aid. According to Jan Egeland, the U.N.'s top humanitarian official, the situation in Darfur is ``going from real bad to catastrophic.'' 
   We have come full circle. Violence is increasing, peace treaties and resolutions are not being implemented, and action must be taken. 
   We must increase pressure on Sudan President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan to allow in U.N. peacekeepers, or alternatively, a peacekeeping force of similar size comprised of Arab and Muslim troops under the auspices of the Arab League. As with any government, dialogue is the best way to attempt a solution to the issue at hand. However, previous engagements have too often yielded poor results--the government of Sudan has been all too willing to 
   cooperate on the surface level by signing agreements and the like and all too willing to fail to implement them. 
   In 1997, the Clinton Administration imposed trade and economic sanctions on Sudan, an approach which I feel is likely to yield the best results. However, sanctions imposed by a limited number of countries do not pressure the government of Sudan adequately enough. It must be noted that no just and lasting peace in Sudan can be achieved without the responsible intervention of China. 
   For too long, China, which is Sudan's biggest oil consumer, has also served as Khartoum's enabler and protector by preventing the U.N. Security Council from imposing more serious sanctions on Sudan in response to the genocide and crimes against humanity committed in Darfur. As former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick stated in a major policy speech on China a year ago: ``China should take more than oil from Sudan--it should take some responsibility for resolving Sudan's human crisis.'' It is my hope that China may be persuaded to provide the type of constructive leadership in Sudan befitting a great power. 
   These are the kind of constructive efforts that I feel will best represent the interests of the people of Darfur to bring an end to this horrible crisis. I am in favor of deploying U.N. peacekeeping troops to the region, and the U.N. needs to move swiftly. In addition, any options regarding United States military intervention should be carefully considered and not ruled out. 
   As we consider these options, Madam Speaker, I would like to remind you that it is not too early to begin the planning efforts needed to transform the Darfur region from a killing field to an economically, politically, and socially viable community. This work will, of course, require the active and purposeful engagement of the United States and other key stakeholders, such as China, and the Arab League. 
   Finally, we must be bold and imaginative in fashioning a solution commensurate with the scale of the problem. The way to do that is to develop a Marshall Plan for the Sudan. But the United Nations, and the international community, must draw a line in the sand and act to stop the genocide in Darfur. The words of President Lincoln speak to us from the ages:  
   [W]e cannot escape history. We, of this Congress and this administration, will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance, or insignificance, can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass, will light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the latest generation.  
   It speaks volumes that H. Con. Res. 7 has 111 co-sponsors, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, take a moment to travel through the Nation's hospitals and speak to those in this final injury ward, see the young women bending over their soldier husbands who now have lost the use of all of their limbs, 25,000-plus injured and 3,000-plus dead. 
   It is not the policies of this Democratic majority that is causing this absolute disaster. It is the misdirected policies of those in the administration who are causing harm to our soldiers. 
   Let me thank our soldiers for their leadership, for their service, and their patriotism. But as I stand here today and look at my Members, the Speaker of the House who went into the Mideast, Mr. Giuliani, there is no white flag on this side of the aisle, and I reject your insult and insensitivity. 
   This legislation will not give the administration a blank check. It will give a new direction to Iraq. It will begin to redeploy soldiers if the President cannot certify the readiness in July and then in October of 2007. It provides funding for veterans hospitals, for the injured with spinal injuries, with brain injury. And, yes, there are those on this side of the aisle who understand the shedding of blood of our soldiers. 
   That is why this legislation will allow us to go and fight the terrorists, to find Osama bin Laden, and to do the job that we have not done since the tragedy and the terrorism of 9/11. 
   This is a sad day in this body. I want us to support the rule and the underlying bill because there is no white flag. We have the solution, and that solution is a policy that responds to the needs of the American people and our soldiers on the battlefield. No more nine soldiers of the 82nd Airborne. We thank them for their service. We declare a military success. And we bring our soldiers home. 
   And maybe it will be good if some of those who did not serve would understand what it means to serve.  
   Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise to speak in support of the Conference Report on H.R. 1591, the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act.'' I support the Conference Report because this compromise offers us the first real chance to end the misguided invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can ``care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the responsibility for bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs and that is squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government. 
   Mr. Speaker, the House and Senate conferees have approved legislation providing $124.2 billion primarily for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As part of the legislation, conferees approved a sensible plan to redeploy U.S. forces in Iraq paired with progress made by the Iraqi government in meeting diplomatic and security benchmarks. These legislative provisions, which are subject to a Presidential waiver, will ensure adequate rest between tours of duty of both active duty and Guard and Reserve forces, while also requiring that their service in Iraq not be extended beyond a year for any tour of duty. 
   President Bush would be required to certify that the Iraqi government is meeting the diplomatic and security benchmarks. If he makes that certification, deployment shall begin no later than October 1, 2007, with the goal of  completing the redeployment within 180 days. After that period, a limited number of U.S. forces could remain in Iraq for force protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counterterrorism options. The legislation makes it possible for the U.S. military to focus its resources on Osama bin Laden, whose organization attacked the nation on 9/11, and destroying his base of operations in Afghanistan. 
   Additionally, the U.S. commander in Iraq would provide regular progress reports to Congress on both the progress of the Iraqi government to take control of that country as well as the status of the redeployment efforts. 
   Finally, the conferees are also to be commended for providing needed funding to improve health care for returning soldiers and veterans, for continued Hurricane Katrina recovery for the Gulf Coast, to fill major gaps in homeland security, and to provide emergency drought relief for farmers. 
   Overall, the conference agreement provides more than $100 billion for the Department of Defense, primarily for continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation includes a 
   $1 billion increase for the National Guard and Reserve equipment and $1.1 billion for military housing. The legislation also provides $3 billion ($1.2 billion more than the President's request) for the purchase of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAP)--vehicles designed to withstand roadside bombs and more than $5 billion to ensure that returning troops and veterans receive the health care that they have earned with their service. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I did not point out that the tragic loss of life last week at Virginia Tech still weighs heavily on our hearts and minds. Neither the mind nor the heart can contemplate a cause that could lead a human being to resort to such senseless violence to injure and destroy fellow human beings. The thoughts and prayers of people of goodwill everywhere go out to the victims and their families. In the face of such overwhelming grief, I hope they can take comfort in the certain knowledge that unearned suffering is redemptive. 
   The war in Iraq has also caused a lot of unearned suffering in Iraq and here at home. This is the same war, Mr. Speaker, whose proponents misrepresented to the nation would last no more than six months and likely less than six weeks. This same war in Iraq, we were led to believe by the Administration, would cost less than $50 billion and would be paid out of the ample revenues from Iraq's oil fields. The war in Iraq, the American people were promised, should have ended years ago with Americans troops greeted as liberators by jubilant Iraqis throwing rose petals at their feet. 
   The President has threatened to veto the legislation now before us if it passes. According to the President and the Vice-President, H.R. 1591 ``would undermine our troops and threaten the safety of the American people here at home.'' Coming from an Administration that has been wrong on every important question relating to the decision to launch the Iraq War as well the conduct of it, this claim is laughable. Little wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans disapprove of the way the President is handling the war. But more important, the President's claim is simply not true. 
   Mr. Speaker, many of the nation's most highly respected generals have endorsed H.R. 1591; all of them oppose the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. Take, for example, Maj. Gen. John Batiste, U.S. Army, Ret. 
   ``This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. It acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing the nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and Marine Corps are at the breaking point with little to show for it, and that our military alone will never establish representative government in Iraq. The administration got it terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to their constitutional responsibilities.'' 
   Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, USA, Ret. Supports this legislation because it ``gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' According to Major Eaton, the real audience for the timeline language is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq: 
   The argument that this bill aides the enemy is simply not mature--nobody on the earth underestimates the United States' capacity for unpredictability. It may further create some sense of urgency in the rest of our government, beginning with the State Department. 
   Lt. Gen. William E. Odom, U.S. Army (Ret.), President Reagan's Director of the National Security Agency, supports the bill because it ``gives the president a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, re-orient U.S. strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help from many other countries--the only way peace will eventually be achieved.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, to date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of 
   human history. But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job. 
   As a result of the colossal miscalculation in deciding to invade Iraq, the loss of public trust resulting from the misrepresentation of the reasons for launching that invasion, and the breath taking incompetence in mismanaging the occupation of Iraq, the Armed Forces and the people of the United States have suffered incalculable damage. 
   The war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,316 brave servicemen and women (64 in the first 16 days of this month). More than 24,912 Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   The depth, breadth, and scope of the President's misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war in Iraq is utterly without precedent in American history. It is a tragedy in a league all its own. But it was not unforeseeable or unavoidable. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act the House passed last month provides real benchmarks and consequences if the Iraqi Government fails to live up to its commitments. First, it requires the President to certify and report to Congress on July 1, 2007 that substantial progress has been made on security, political and reconstruction benchmarks by the Iraqi government. 
   If the President cannot certify that the Iraqi government has made substantial progress, redeployment of U.S. combat troops must begin, with a goal of being completed within 180 days (by December 31, 2007). If the July certification is made, redeployment of U.S. combat troops must begin by October 1, 2007, with a goal of being completed within 180 days (by March 31, 2008). 
   The measure changes the mission of U.S. troops in Iraq after redeployment from combat to training and equipping Iraqi troops, targeted counterterrorism operations, and force protection. 
   I have to say, Mr. Speaker, the Iraqi Government is not off to a good start. The Green Zone surrounding Baghdad remains insecure. Two weeks ago, a suicide bomber managed to penetrate the security perimeter of the Iraqi Parliament and detonated a bomb that killed at least three members of the Iraqi parliament and wounded scores of others. Additionally, the market represented by Senator MCCAIN as an example of the improved security situation in Iraq was turned into a killing field within days after Senator MCCAIN'S visit. And just last week, we saw the bloodiest and deadliest day in Baghdad since the so-called ``surge'' began when 198 Iraqi civilians were massacred by insurgents. 
   Mr. Speaker, radical Shiite Muslim cleric Muqtada al-Sadr has reasserted his political power by yanking his loyalists from the Cabinet, a move aimed at showing his supporters he retains his credentials as an opposition leader and which increases the pressure on Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to loosen his embrace of the U.S. occupation, which many Iraqis blame for violence in the country. 
   These developments, Madam Speaker, illustrate the wisdom of requiring benchmarks the Iraqi Government must meet to justify continued American blood and treasure in Iraq. Moreover, because those benchmarks are established pursuant to President Bush's policies, it is passing strange indeed that he would threaten to veto 
   the bill since it necessarily means he would be vetoing his own benchmarks for the performance of the Iraqi government. He would be vetoing his own readiness standards for U.S. troops. The President demands this Congress send him an Iraq war bill with ``no strings.'' But the only ``strings'' attached, Madam Speaker, are the benchmarks and standards imposed by the President himself. 
   Mr. Speaker, in addition to the enormous financial cost, the human cost to the men and women of the United States Armed Forces has also been high but they have willingly paid it. Operation Iraqi Freedom has exacerbated the Veterans Administration health care facility maintenance backlog; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. 
   The emergency supplemental acknowledges the sacrifices made by, and the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces of the United States. But more than that, it makes a substantial down payment on that debt by providing substantial increases in funding for our troops.  
   The supplemental includes a total appropriation of $2.8 billion for Defense Health Care, which is $1.7 billion above the President's request. The additional funding supports new initiatives to enhance medical services for active duty forces and mobilized personnel, and their family members. Included in this new funding is $450 million for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Counseling; $450 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research; $730 million to prevent health care fee increases for our troops; $20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed; and $14.8 million for burn care. 
   Unlike the Republican leadership of the 109th Congress and the Bush Administration, the new Democratic majority is committed to America's veterans. What's more, we back up that commitment by investing in their well-being. For example, the supplemental includes $1.7 billion above the President's request for initiatives to address the health care needs of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities, including $550 million to address the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities so as to prevent the VA from experiencing a situation similar to that found at Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   We provide an additional $250 million for medical administration to ensure there are sufficient personnel to support the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain a high level of services for all veterans; $229 million for treating the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans; $100 million for contract mental health care, which will allow the VA to contract with private mental health care providers to ensure that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are seen in the most timely and least disruptive fashion, including members of the Guard and Reserve; and $62 million to speed up the processing of claims of veterans returning from Iraq and Aghanistan. 
   Madam Speaker, when American troops are sent into harm's way, America has an obligation to do all it can to minimize the risk of harm to the troops. That is why it was so important that we included additional funding above the President's request to support our troops. We provide $2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of our stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped and trained. We include $1.4 billion more for military housing allowances and $311 million more for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for troops in Iraq. And there is 
   included in the supplemental $222 million more for infrared countermeasures for Air Force aircraft to address the growing threat against U.S. air operations in Iraq and Afghanistan 
   Equally important, Mr. Speaker, the supplemental contains language directing the President to adhere to current military guidelines for unit readiness, deployments, and time between deployments. 
   The supplemental requires the Defense Department to abide by its current Unit Readiness policy, requiring the chief of the military department concerned to determine that a unit is ``fully mission capable'' before it is deployed to Iraq. The President may waive this provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's deployment is in the interests of national security despite the assessment that the unit is not fully mission capable. 
   The Defense Department is also required to abide by its current policy and avoid extending the deployment of units in Iraq in excess of 365 days for the Army and 210 days for the Marines. The provision may be waived by the President only by submitting a report to Congress detailing the particular reason or reasons why the unit's extended deployment is in the interests of national security. 
   Mr. Speaker, to reduce the incidence of combat fatigue and enhance readiness, it is important that our troops have sufficient ``time out of the combat zone and training between deployments. That is why we require the Defense Department to abide by its current policy and avoid sending units back into Iraq before troops get the required time away from the war theater. The President may waive this provision by submitting a report to Congress detailing why the unit's early redeployment to Iraq is in the interests of national security. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held more than 100 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group Report to the shameful mistreatment of wounded soldiers recuperating at Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge the President should sign this measure, in order to get these needed resources to our troops and to our veterans and to hold the Iraqis accountable. By signing this legislation the President can help deliver the message to the Iraqi people that they must take responsibility for their own future. By signing this measure the President can show some leadership in the transitioning of the mission of U.S. troops from combat to training Iraqi troops and counterterrorism. Last, this legislation will help restore and strengthen our military, with a new Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund among other measures. 
   Last November the American people signaled clearly their loss of confidence in the President's leadership and their desire for a new direction in Iraq. In less than 120 days, the new Democratic majority has begun to deliver. And we will not rest, Madam Speaker, until we are clearly on a glide path to the day when our troops come home. 
   And even then our work will not be done. We must still be about the business of repairing the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. But this Democratic majority, led by the Progressive Caucus and the Out of Iraq Caucus, has ushered in a new era of oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. 
   I urge all members to join me in supporting the Conference Report to H.R. 1591. This is the best way to ensure accountability to our soldiers who have been sent into battle without proper training or equipment or a clear mission. It is the best way to keep faith with our veterans who are not getting the best medical care when they come home. Passing this supplemental appropriations bill is essential to restoring our military that is being stretched to the limits by the Bush policy. Last, it is absolutely necessary to regain the confidence of the American people who demand a new direction in Iraq.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TORTURE VICTIMS RELIEF REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, we almost wish we did not have to come to the floor of the House to address this question of ongoing torture in 2007. Again, I offer my appreciation for this work, your leadership and leadership of this committee, and to Mr. Smith who has articulated his ongoing struggle with a crisis that will break your heart. 
   Even today we know that torture goes on in 150 nations around the world. We know that some 4- to 500,000 torture victims have found their way to the United States. Many of us have heard of the lost boys, some of us know the story of Sierra Leone and mutilation that occurred in Rwanda, children who were child soldiers who were victimized. But do we understand the ongoing psychological, traumatic experiences that requires necessary psychological services and therapy to cope with posttraumatic stress?  
   Now with the Iraq War and Afghan War, we hear of prisoners of war and the unending suggestions of torture that have occurred, and so we know that even in our own House we must respond to the crisis. 
   I rise to support this legislation, H.R. 1678, because its journey is not yet finished. Let me applaud the author of this legislation, as I am a cosponsor, that authorizes $12 million per year for centers and programs administered through USAID's victims of torture fund, an additional $12 million per year for centers and programs administered by the U.N. voluntary fund for victims of torture, and $25 million for the Department of Health and Human Services. 
   Let me also salute the Darfur Coalition for Peace. I believe these resources can be utilized for the Darfurian women who have reportedly and repeatedly been raped, a very, very difficult and brutal form of torture. These women have not only been raped, but they have been mutilated. They have been carved and scarred. They have bled, and they have a mass of psychological devastation. 
   The Darfur Peace Coalition will be attempting to place tents on the soil in Darfur, the only kind of structure that can then have counselors who will help these torture victims, these victims of rape. 
   This legislation can certainly be a partner in finding and weeding out torture where it is, but more importantly, in dealing with the torture victims who may have some small chance of regaining their lives again. 
   I rise to support this legislation in sadness, because its work is yet not done, and every day we know that there may be a victim of torture. I am proud of this Congress in moving forward on this legislation, and I ask for its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished gentleman from New York (Mr. Israel) for yielding and thank you for the leadership given. 
   We join you and we thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee as well. We have been working, Congressman Payne, members of the Congressional Black Caucus, and this entire caucus have been working on this issue, and want to thank you for, I think, what is a holistic, bipartisan approach. 
   I would call it an undiscovered airfield, but it is not. Obviously, it is an airfield that represents a strategic location for the goals of your amendment. 
   I think it's important to note that the slaughter still continues in Darfur; the slaughter still continues in Sudan. And I was told just recently, and I appreciate the Save Darfur Coalition that we have all worked with that repeatedly come to your offices and tell you that the slaughter still goes on, that humanitarian workers have also been put in jeopardy. 
   Women who are trying to get firewood, and isn't it a simple task? And many of us don't understand, they are still getting firewood, and that is, women who are leaving villages, even in Chad, where I have gone to the refugee camps, women will leave those refugee camps to get, if you will, the firewood for their income, for their survival, and will be raped and sometimes beaten as they go to do that.     
   To have a place for the humanitarian workers and the airlift that is necessary, both in Darfur and also in other regions of Sudan, can be lifesaving. 
   I hope, as the ranking member of the full committee indicated his interest of collaboration, that we too can collaborate and work with you and work with this final solution. I like to call it final, because, as you well know, the deaths are peaking. 
   I want to say to the ranking member, Mr. Hunter, as I also thank the chairman of the full committee, because this is a unique amendment. Both of you, of course, had to agree on the uniqueness of this amendment. 
   But the idea of it is that humanitarian workers are not safe. Therefore, it is important for those humanitarian workers to be safe. I simply say this is an excellent amendment. I thank you, and I encourage everyone to support and vote for this amendment in order to save lives in the Sudan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished speaker, chairman, and gentlelady from California. 
   I rise to offer and to support the en bloc amendments, and to speak particularly to amendment No. 23 which regards the emotional and financial impact of multiple deployments. 
   This amendment is simple. It requires the Secretary of Defense to study and report back to Congress the financial and emotional impact of multiple deployments on the families of those soldiers who serve multiple tours. We all are concerned about our soldiers and, likewise, their families. 
   In a report by Dr. Hoge, a study indicated that 94 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported receiving small arms fire, 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who has been seriously injured or killed, and 68 percent reported seeing dead or seriously injured Americans; 51 percent reported handling or uncovering human remains; and the majority, 77 percent of soldiers deployed to Iraq, reported shooting or directing fire at the enemy. All of this impacts their families, and we found anxiety, fatigue, stress, and other aspects that impact the wives and children as well. 
   The National Military Families have indicated a series of recommendations for the Department of Defense. I believe this study will help the entire entity of the military make us stronger and certainly respond to the needs of our military and their families. 
   My amendment No. 24 recognizes that in 1948 the military was desegregated; integration had increased the percentage of African Americans in the enlisted ranks. We see high numbers of Hispanics and Asians and others. This amendment simply acknowledges the existence of the ROTC scholarship and asks that there be an outreach to ensure that this information be given to Hispanic-serving institutions and African American-serving institutions, historically black colleges. 
   The importance of this amendment is to ensure the outreach and the opportunities for our young people who are placed around the Nation. Patriotism is certainly not guided by region or colleges to which you go. I ask my colleagues to support these amendments, one to take a holistic view of the redeployment and the impact on our families, and, two, to outreach to our young people no matter where they attend college and where they live for the established ROTC and other military scholarships.  
   I thank the chairman and ranking member for allowing me to explain my amendments to H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. There is no greater champion of our men and women in uniform than my good friend Mr. SKELTON, the gentleman from Missouri, and distinguished chair of the Armed Services Committee. That is why I appreciate the chairman's support for my amendments. 
   Mr. Chairman, in light of the fact that our Nation is in the midst of an ugly war, and in the context of the ongoing fight against terrorism, this piece of legislation is probably the most important piece of legislation that the 110th Congress will pass. It is in that spirit that I offer my amendments today. Each of my amendments plays a vital role in ensuring that our courageous troops maintain their status as the best in the world. Accordingly my amendments also reinforce the message to our troops that they are our most precious resource, and we do not take their efforts for granted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS CENTERS NEEDED IN UNDERSERVED AREAS -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me take the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to acknowledge the crisis that many of us see occurring with the brave men and women that return from fighting in Iraq and fighting in Afghanistan. 
   We have just finished a very thoughtful and collaborative effort to address the serious questions of our military and the Department of Defense, and the good news is that this bill has impacted or emphasized more on the needs of families. 
   I look forward to working with this body to develop more post-traumatic stress centers in underserved areas where military personnel will be returning to their homes. We already know the dastardly conditions that our military face in Iraq and Afghanistan, the long hours and tediousness of the DMZ and many other places around the world. 
   Our military personnel are suffering, and I look forward to working with this committee, the Veterans Affairs Committee, to ensure that centers like the Riverside Medical Center in Houston, Texas, can be a site for post-traumatic stress for our soldiers returning home so that their physical needs and their mental needs can be serviced. I look forward to this. 
   I believe we can do better by our soldiers as we move forward on helping them improve their mental health. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (25 BY 25 RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 25, expressing the sense of Congress that it is the goal of the United States that, not later than January 1, 2025, the agricultural, forestry, and working land of the United States should provide from renewable resources not less than 25 percent of the total energy consumed in the United States and continue to produce safe, abundant, and affordable food, feed, and fiber. I am proud to join over 70 of my colleagues in cosponsoring this important legislation. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague Congressman Peterson for introducing this bill, as well for his leadership on this issue as the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. 
   Madam Speaker, the issue of energy is not only a critical economic issue, it is an urgent national security issue which has reached crisis proportions. With gasoline prices at record levels, the American people are suffering for our dependence on foreign oil. 
   In addition to being from the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years I have been the Chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of energy braintrusts designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. My energy braintrusts were designed to be a call of action to all of the sectors who comprise the American and international energy industry, to the African American community, and to the nation as a whole. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. Bringing together thoughtful yet disparate voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a nation achieve energy security and energy independence. 
   This Congress has demonstrated its commitment to taking our Nation in a new direction, toward energy security and away from dependence on foreign oil. Today, we are considering legislation, known as the ``25 by '25 proposal,'' that expresses the sense of Congress that the goal of the U.S. is that America's farms, forests, and ranches provide 25% of the total energy consumed in America from renewable resources by 2025, while continuing to produce safe, abundant, and affordable food, feed, and fiber. 
   Madam Speaker, we live in a nation of extraordinary resources. As world oil prices continue to soar, now reaching a record $86 per barrel, it is vital that harness our vast resources here at home. This legislation lays out  an ambitious goal, one which will require innovation and new thinking about national priorities. However, I believe that the goal of producing 25% of America's energy from renewable resources is well worth aiming for. 
   Renewable energy can be harnessed in every one of America's 50 States. It can come from resources including wind, solar, hydropower, and biofuels, and it is currently the fastest growing energy sector. In particular, ethanol introduces the possibility that we can produce 25% of our projected gasoline use in 2025 from farm and forest resources, including many waste materials. 
   Both the House and the Senate have taken an important first step toward achieving this critical goal by passing comprehensive and bipartisan energy security measures. These initiatives have included critical proposals aimed at reducing our dependence on foreign oil; lowering energy costs through greater efficiency, cleaner energy, and smarter technology; creating new American jobs; and reducing global warming. 
   Madam Speaker, the legislation we are considering today has the support of a broad range of farm organizations, along with leaders from business, labor, conservation, environmental, and religious groups. It sets an ambitious but achievable goal, and will make important strides toward achieving energy independence. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE PRESIDENT'S VETO OF BIPARTISAN CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE BILL -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my dear friend, Ms. TUBBS JONES of Ohio, for organizing this special order on the very important subject of SCHIP Reauthorization. I have very serious concerns about the compromised SCHIP legislation that will come before this House later this week. My major concern is that the version of the legislation that will come before the House in response to the President's veto will be even less expansive than the version the House voted on previously. 
   This is extremely important because reauthorization of SCHIP is crucial to closing the  racial and ethnic health disparities in this country. Narrowing health care coverage of our children, as this newly agreed upon version does, clearly falls far short of the goal that we had hoped for in our efforts to decrease health disparities. It is crucial that this Congress continue to bring awareness to the many health concerns facing minority communities and to acknowledge that we need to find solutions to address these concerns. My colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I understand the very difficult challenges facing us in the form of huge health disparities among our community and other minority communities. We will continue to seek solutions to those challenges. 
   Reauthorization of the SCHIP is crucial to realizing those solutions. However, we must not compromise away the health of millions of children who will under this new SCHIP version go without health care coverage. It is imperative for us to improve the prospects for living long and healthy lives and fostering an ethic of wellness in African-American and other minority communities. I thank all of my CBC colleagues who have been toiling in the vineyards for years developing effective public policies and securing the resources needed to eradicate racial and gender disparities in health and wellness. 
   We know that the lack of healthcare contributes greatly to the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country, so we must provide our children with the health insurance coverage to remain healthy. SCHIP, established in 1997 to serve as the healthcare safety net for low-income uninsured children, has decreased the number of uninsured low-income children in the United States by more than one-third. The reduction in the number of uninsured children is even more striking for minority children. 
   In 2006, SCHIP provided insurance to 6.7 million children. Of these, 6.2 million were in families whose income was less than $33,200 a year for a family of three. SCHIP works in conjunction with the Medicaid safety net that serves the lowest income children and ones with disabilities. Together, these programs provide necessary preventative, primary and acute healthcare services to more than 30 million children. Eighty-six percent of these children are in working families that are unable to obtain or afford private health insurance. Meanwhile, health care through SCHIP is cost effective: it costs a mere $3.34 a day or $100 a month to cover a child under SCHIP, according to the Congressional Budget Office. There are significant benefits of the State Children's Health Insurance Program when looking at specific populations served by this program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (OVERRIDING THE VETO ON SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in a little less than 72 hours, this House will have the opportunity to make one of the most definitive and powerful stands for the Nation's children. 
   Let me go on record by indicating that this Nation has over a period of time mistreated her children. Now we have the opportunity to insure millions of children with health coverage through the SCHIP program, a program now that has seen itself last for a decade of success in preventing devastating health conditions for young children. 
   I know this because just last week I visited St. Joseph's Hospital, the neonatal unit. We heard stories from young mothers talk about children who have been saved and, yes, talk about those who have not been saved because they could not enroll in the SCHIP program. 
   Why in the world would we suffer a veto to deny our children a mere $35 billion to cover them for preventative health care? 
   I ask my colleagues to overturn this veto, and I join the Congressional Black Caucus to ensure that that happens. The fight is for our children. We cannot yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5781, FEDERAL EMPLOYEES PAID PARENTAL LEAVE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Massachusetts, and I thank the minority for their indulgence.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5781, the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act of 2008, introduced by my colleague and fellow Women's Caucus member, Congresswoman CAROLYN MALONEY of New York. 
   This legislation provides 4 weeks of paid parental leave for all Federal employees. Employees will also for the first time be allowed to use their accrued sick leave for an additional 8 weeks of paid leave. By combining the 4 weeks of paid parental leave with earned sick leave, many Federal employees will now be able to get paid for the full 12 weeks of parental leave that is their right under the existing Family and Medical Leave Act. 
   However, this legislation is about more than a technical fix to current law. As we celebrated our fathers only last week, we recognized the significance of family of the various roles we all play. Mothers and fathers should be allowed to be there for the birth or adoption of a new child. This legislation reinforces the belief in family. Be it grandmother, grandfather, uncle, aunt, or mom and dad--our families deserve to be supported and valued. 
   In my district of Houston, Texas, there are over 70,000 single parent households run by women and over 22,000 Federal employees in my district. This legislation gives them the time they need to bond with a new child. It has been proven time and time again that the first few weeks post-birth are essential to parent and child bonding. This is true be they natural or adopted children. 
   This legislation should be titled Celebrating and Supporting Our Families Act because that is exactly what it seeks to do. It also provides that support for our employees here on Capitol Hill. 
   This act allows Federal employees to substitute any available paid leave for any leave without pay available for either the: (1) birth of a child; or (2) placement of a child with the employee for either adoption or foster care. Makes available for any of the 12 weeks of leave an employee is entitled to for such purposes: (1) four administrative weeks of paid parental leave in connection with the birth or placement involved; and (2) any accumulated annual or sick leave. 
   Authorizes the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to increase the amount of paid parental leave available to up to eight administrative workweeks, based on the consideration of: (1) the benefits provided to the Federal Government of offering paid parental leave, including enhanced recruitment and retention of employees; (2) the cost to the Federal Government of increasing the amount of paid parental leave that is available to employees; (3) trends in the private sector and in State and local governments with respect to offering paid parental leave; and (4) the Federal Government's role as a model employer. 
   Amends the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to allow the same substitution for covered congressional employees, Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Library of Congress employees. 
   Defines ``qualified leave'' as leave that: (1) is available by reason of the need to care for the spouse, child, or parent of the employee having a serious health condition or by reason of a serious health condition affecting the employees that renders such employee unable to perform the functions of his or her position; and (2) would otherwise be leave without pay. 
   This act is a tremendous step and makes unequivocally clear, and dispels any belief that this act applies only to women. It does not. Members on both sides of the aisle talk about family values, but one of the most concrete ways we can help families is to give parents more time with their new children, without losing their paycheck. The Federal Government can be a model for other employers. I therefore encourage my colleagues to support this legislation and demonstrate by their actions that they support our families.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO HOUSE AMENDMENTS TO SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady from New York. I rise today to thank Chairman Obey and thank the leadership, Speaker Pelosi, for addressing the question that confronts us in the most strategic way possible. But it is important to note that many of us have opposed consistently a war that continues to go on unbridled and misdirected. 
   We thank our soldiers. But it's important to note that now some $600 billion has gone to Iraq. We've lost 4,100 soldiers. Instead of having a military surge, we should have a diplomatic surge. We now give $165 million unrestricted to this White House. But I do rise in support of amendment 2 that provides for the GI Bill that acts as a good Samaritan to those who have been unemployed for 13 extra weeks of unemployment, that provides for elimination of six Medicaid provisions that will help restore partially the health care that Americans need. But I believe we should have had provisions in this particular appropriation that would indicate that the dollars should be used to redeploy our troops, thank them and grant them the success that they have had because they are successful. 
   But we need to bring our troops home. And we need to indicate that the authority for military force has expired. The GI Bill is a ``thank you'' to our soldiers. Let's bring them home safely. And let's provide the investment that it needs. I am grateful that we had the disaster relief for all of those suffering in the Midwest, but that we've not forgotten the Katrina victims and survivors that now are still homeless. It is important, as we move forward, to begin to look at domestic funding. 
   This is a first start. But we need to have legislation that acknowledges the honor of those who have fallen, declare a military success and allow Iraq to invest. And I am grateful for the two amendments that require Iraq to invest in its own domestic development. This is the time to redeploy our troops.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to Amendment #1, and in strong support of Amendment #2 of the bill H.R. 2642, Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, and for other purposes. While I am supportive of the portions that contain provisions beneficial to the American people designed to improve our economy and protect  our young men and women, I remain adamantly opposed to this legislation because it continues a disastrous policy of providing unrestricted funding to continue the Bush Administration's war in Iraq. 
   AMENDMENT #1--IRAQ WAR FUNDING 
   Mr. Speaker, I oppose Amendment #1 because I stand with the American taxpayers, who have paid over $600 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 4100 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. In May, I was proud to vote against amendment #1 to the previous version of the supplemental spending bill that would have provided funds for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which included a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops. I was extremely pleased that the House did not pass this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I must oppose this legislation as it provides a total of $165.4 billion for the Department of Defense for FY 2008 and FY 2009, funds that are handed over without any strings. This legislation does not withhold funding for the Iraq war, a war that so many of my colleagues in Congress oppose, and which only 32 percent of Americans now support. The bill we are considering today does not require that war funds can only be used for the responsible redeployment of American troop's home from Iraq. Instead, it hands the President nearly $163 billion of virtually unrestricted funding, allowing him to continue a war that the American people do not support. 
   Mr. Speaker, I voted against the 2002 Iraq War Resolution. I am proud of that vote. I have consistently voted against the Administration's practice of submitting a request for war funding through an emergency supplemental rather than the regular appropriations process which would subject the funding request to more rigorous scrutiny and require it to be balanced against other pressing national priorities. I cannot support legislation that provides the President with the resources to prolong his ill-advised war effort unrestrained. As a Member of both the Out of Iraq and the Progressive Caucuses, I am proud to vote for legislation that, like other measures passed by this Congress, begins the process of withdrawing U.S. men and women from Iraq. 
   The congressional authorization providing for the use of military force in Iraq has expired. The 2002 Resolution authorized the President to:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DAWN OF THE SPACE AGE -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 225, which commemorates the 50th anniversary of the dawn of the Space Age. I would like to thank my colleague Mr. Gordon for his excellent leadership in shepherding this important legislation to passage on the House floor. 
   The year 2008 will mark the 50th anniversary of the dawn of the Space Age and the creation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). I support the resolution because it affords the Congress an opportunity to pay tribute to the extraordinary partnership between NASA and its 10 space and research centers. 
   Mr. Speaker, NASA has a distinguished history. The United States of America won the race to land a man on the moon and, thanks to the courage, dedication, and brilliance of NASA, America has continued to lead the world in the exploration of the solar system and the universe. 
   On October 1, 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began operation. At the time it consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million. Over the next 50 years, NASA has been involved in many defining events which have shaped the course of human history and demonstrated to the world the character of the people of the United States. 
   Many of us remember how inspired we were when, on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed: ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to earth. No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish.'' 
   Always at the forefront of technological innovation, NASA has been home to countless ``firsts'' in the field of space exploration, from the 1958 launch of Pioneer 3, the first U.S. satellite to ascend to an altitude of 63,580 miles, to the January 1998 signing of the International Space Station agreement between 15 countries, establishing the framework for cooperation among partners on the design, development, operation, and utilization of the Space Station. 
   Over the past 50 years, NASA's accomplishments have included: 
   On 20 February, 1962, John Glenn became the first American to circle the Earth, making three orbits in his Friendship 7 Mercury spacecraft. 
   On 6 April, 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, the first commercial satellite (communications), into geostationary orbit. 
   On 13 November, 1971, the United States launched Mariner 9, the first mission to orbit another planet (Mars). 
   On 12 April, 1981, NASA launched the space shuttle Columbia on the first flight of the Space Transportation System (STS-l). 
   On 18 to 24 June, 1983, NASA launched space shuttle Challenger (STS-7) carrying three mission specialists, including Sally K. Ride, the first woman astronaut. In another historic mission, 2 
   months later NASA launched STS-8 carrying the first black American astronaut, Guion S. Bluford. 
   On 22 July, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia's 26th flight was led by Air Force COL Eileen Collins, the first woman to command a Shuttle mission. 
   On July 20, 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin made the first lunar landing mission while Michael Collins orbited overhead in the Apollo command module. Armstrong set foot on the surface, telling the millions of listeners that it was ``one small step for man--one giant leap for mankind.'' Aldrin soon followed him out and planted an American flag but omitted claiming the land for the U.S., as had routinely been done during European exploration of the Americas. The two Moon-walkers left behind an American flag and a plaque bearing the inscription: ``Here Men From Planet Earth First Set Foot Upon the Moon. Jul. 1969 A.D. We came in Peace for All Mankind.'' 
   On April 24, 1990, the Hubble space telescope was launched into space aboard the STS-31 mission of the space shuttle Discovery. The Hubble has revolutionized astronomy while expanding our knowledge of the universe and inspiring millions of scientists, students, and members of the public with its unprecedented deep and clear images of space. 
   Mr. Speaker, in addition to these historic events, NASA has greatly contributed to our understanding of our universe. In 1968, Apollo 8 took off atop a Saturn V booster from the Kennedy Space Center for a historic mission to orbit the Moon. As Apollo 8 traveled outward, the crew focused a portable television camera on Earth and for the first time humanity saw its home from afar, a tiny, lovely, and fragile ``blue marble'' hanging in the blackness of space. 
   This transmission and viewing of Earth from a distance was an enormously significant accomplishment and united the Nation at a time when American society was in crisis over Vietnam, race relations, urban problems, and a host of other difficulties.  
   The success of the United States space exploration program in the 20th century augurs well for its continued leadership in the 21st century. This success is largely attributable to the remarkable and indispensable partnership between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its 10 space and research centers. One of these important research centers is located in my home city of Houston. The Johnson Space Center, which manages the development, testing, production, and delivery of all United States human spacecraft and all human spacecraft-related functions, is one of the crown jewels of NASA and a lodestar Houston area. The other nine research and space centers are: 
   1. The Ames Research Center in California's Silicon Valley provides products, technologies, and services that enable NASA missions and expand human knowledge in areas as diverse as small spacecraft and supercomputers, science missions and payloads, thermal protection systems and information technology. 
   2. The Dryden Flight Research Center, the leading center for innovative flight research. 
   3. The Glenn Research Center, which develops power, propulsion, and communication technologies for space flight systems and aeronautics research. 
   4. The Goddard Space Flight Center, which specializes in research to expand knowledge on the Earth and its environment, the solar system, and the universe through observations from space. 
   5. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the leading center for robotic exploration of the Solar System. 
   6. The Kennedy Space Center, the gateway to the Universe and world leader in preparing and launching missions around the Earth and beyond. 
   7. The Langley Research Center, which continues to forge new frontiers in aviation and space research for aerospace, atmospheric sciences, and technology commercialization to improve the way the world lives. 
   8. The Marshall Space Flight Center, a world leader in developing space transportation and propulsion systems, engineers the future to accelerate exploration and scientific discovery. 
   9. The Stennis Space Center, which is responsible for rocket propulsion testing and for partnering with industry to develop and implement remote sensing technology. 
   NASA's stunning achievements over the last 50 years have been won for all mankind at great cost and sacrifice. In the quest to explore the universe, many NASA employees have lost their lives, including the crews of Apollo 6, the space shuttle Challenger, and the space shuttle Columbia. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the centuries to come, when space travel will be commonplace and America will have successfully led the way for humanity to colonize and utilize the resources of other planets, these first 50 years of NASA's existence will be remembered as the most significant era of human space exploration. It is, therefore, important that we commemorate the great achievements of NASA's first 50 years. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this historic legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in strong support of H.R. 2102, the Free Flow of Information Act of 2007, which I am proud to co-sponsor. This legislation provides a qualified immunity from prosecution or contempt to journalists for refusing to disclose confidential sources or information. 
   Let me say, Mr. Speaker, that I am confident that this legislation adequately addresses and resolves the conflict between society's competing interests in a free and vigorous press, on the one hand, and not unduly hampering the ability of law enforcement to investigate and prosecute crimes. 
   Mr. Speaker, when it comes to the freedom of the press, the Department of Justice's Statement of Policy is clear. It states ``Because freedom of the press can be no broader than the freedom of reporters to investigate and report the news, the prosecutorial power of the government should not be used in such a way that it impairs a reporter's responsibility to cover as broadly as possible controversial public issues.'' 28 C.F.R. 50.10. 
   I have long been a strong proponent of a qualified privilege for journalists. Indeed, in 2001 I spoke out in favor of the need for such a privilege when I went to the Federal Detention Center in Houston today to support the efforts of Professor Vanessa Leggett, a 33-year-old freelance non-fiction writer who had been jailed without bond since July 20, 2001 for asserting her journalistic privilege and First Amendment right not to reveal confidential source information. 
   After visiting Professor Vanessa Leggett I became convinced of the justice of her cause and the importance of her case. Professor Leggett had spent four years researching the 1997 murder of Doris Angleton. When she refused to give in to threats and intimidation by an overzealous prosecution, and asserted her First Amendment rights in a grand jury investigation, she was found in contempt and jailed. 
   Mr. Speaker, like you I believe the First Amendment is the most important amendment in the Bill of Rights. And it is not a coincidence that the freedoms of speech and press are the first freedoms listed in the First Amendment. 
   I believe allowing journalists the right to maintain the confidentiality of their sources when doing research must be protected because it is indispensable to a free press which is the sine qua non of a free society. We must heed the counsel of Justice 
   Douglas's dissent in Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U.S. 665 (1972): ``The people, the ultimate governors [of our democracy], must have absolute freedom of and therefore privacy of their individual opinions and beliefs.'' Justice Douglas reminds us that ``effective self-government cannot succeed unless the people are immersed in a steady, robust, unimpeded, and uncensored flow of opinion and reporting which are continuously subjected to critique, rebuttal, and re-examination.'' 
   Again, this principle, codified at Title 28 CFR 50.10 of the Department of Justice Statement of Policy, clearly recognizes and protects one of our most sacred democratic institutions: the media. It 
   requires, for example, that the Department of Justice ``strike the proper balance between the public's interest in effective law enforcement and the fair administration of justice,'' while other subsections clearly require that sanctions, such as those administered by the Department of Justice in this case, shall be reviewed by the Attorney General. As such, this Section presents a tension with the Court precedents set in Branzburg and in Jascalevich. 
   The Supreme Court's decisions in Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U.S. 665 (1972), and New York Times v. Jascalevich, 439 U.S. 1331 (1978) establish the precedent that a  journalist cannot rely upon an absolute First Amendment-based privilege to justify refusal to testify when called by a grand jury, unless the grand jury investigation is instigated in bad faith. However, since the Court handed down its decision in Branzburg, 49 states and the District of Columbia now recognize some version of a shield law protecting the press, to varying degrees, from unfettered disclosure of sources, work product, and information generally. 
   These various state protections range in type and scope, from broad protections that provide an absolute journalistic privilege to shield laws that offer only qualified protection. The majority of state shield laws currently in place offer some form of a qualified privilege to reporters, protecting source information in judicial settings, unless the compelling party can establish that the information is: (1) relevant or material; (2) unavailable by other means, or through other sources; and (3) a compelling need exists for that information. There is considerable variation among the states on the last prong, with some requiring the party seeking disclosure to establish a compelling need for the information. Other states require a compelling showing that disclosure is needed to achieve a broader and greater public policy purpose. 
   In Federal courts, however, there is no current uniform set of standards to govern when testimony can be sought from reporters. Rather, the Federal jurisprudence has developed on an ad hoc, case-by-case basis. That is why we need, and I support, H.R. 2102. 
   H.R. 2102 establishes a procedure by which disclosure of confidential information from a journalist may not be compelled to testify or provide documents related to information obtained or created by the journalist unless the following conditions are met by a preponderance of the evidence and after notice to be heard: (1) The party seeking production must have exhausted all reasonable alternative sources of the information; (2) in the case of a criminal investigation, the party seeking production must have reasonable grounds to believe a crime has occurred and the information sought is critical to the case; (3) disclosure is necessary to: prevent an act of terrorism against the United States or other significant specified harm to national security or to prevent imminent death or significant bodily harm or to identify a person who has disclosed a trade secret actionable under 18 U.S.C. &#167;1831 or &#167;1832; or (4) the party seeking production must prove that the public interest in compelling disclosure outweighs the public interest in gathering or disseminating news or information. 
   Mr. Speaker, section 4 of the bill defines the key terms used in this bill. A ``Covered Person'' is a person who, for financial gain or livelihood, is engaged in journalism, including supervisors, employers, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a covered person. ``Journalism'' is defined as the ``gathering, preparing, collecting, photographing, recording, writing, editing, reporting, or publishing of news or information that concerns local, national, or international events or other matters of public interest for dissemination to the public.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I applaud and commend Mr. Boucher's efforts to address the many concerns of his colleagues relating to the scope of a ``covered person'' and the definition of ``journalism.'' Initially, I was 
   troubled that one day in the future some runaway court or wayward judge may construe these definitions so narrowly that situations like the one involving Vanessa Leggett that I have previously discussed would be excluded. However, based on my consultations with the lead sponsors, as well as my detailed discussions and consultations with groups like the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, I am satisfied that the proposed language is broad enough to cover journalists who are in Vanessa Leggett's situation. 
   Under this legislation, a freelance journalist facing a similar subpoena will be able to represent to a judge that at the time she was talking to sources, she represented to them that she was working on a story or non-fiction book that she planned to sell to a newspaper or magazine or publisher. A reasonable judge would have little choice but to find her to be covered by the statute. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is interesting to note that the District Court and the 5th Circuit never questioned Vanessa Leggett's status as a journalist. Rather, the court assumed she was a journalist using the test of In re von Bulow, 828 F2d 94 (2d Cir. 1987). If the issue of a freelancer being covered was found to be vague in the statute, I believe a court would revert to the von Bulow standard, which holds someone is a journalist if she represented to her sources at the time of the interview that she was a journalist and was gathering information intending to write a story to disseminate to an audience. 
   In short, Mr. Speaker, because I believe the language of the bill now leaves no doubt that the Congress specifically intends the Free Flow of Information Act to cover situations similar to the Vanessa Leggett case, I strongly support this legislation and urge my colleagues to join me in voting for H.R. 2102. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERNET TAX FREEDOM ACT AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3678, the ``Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act of 2007.'' I support this bill because it extends the moratorium imposed by Congress in the Internet Tax Freedom Act, ITFA, for 4 years, extends the grandfather protections for my home State of Texas and eight other States for 4 years for Internet access taxes levied before October 1998, and provides a new definition for Internet access that will narrow what generally constitutes Internet access. 
   The Internet Tax Freedom Act, ITFA, was enacted on October 21, 1998, as Title XI of Division C of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. The ITFA placed a 3 year moratorium on the ability of State and local governments to: (1) impose new taxes on Internet access; or (2) impose any multiple or discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. The Act also grandfathered the State and local access taxes that were ``generally imposed and actually enforced prior to October 1, 1998[.]'' 
   This initial Internet tax moratorium expired on October 21, 2001. The Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act was then enacted on November 28, 2001. It provided for a 2 year extension of the prior moratorium through November 1, 2003. The moratorium was then extended for an additional 4 years, through November 1, 2007, by the Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-435 (2004). Taxes on Internet access that were in place before October 1, 1998, were protected by a grandfather clause. 
   Mr. Speaker, I oppose making the Internet Tax Freedom Act, ITFA, permanent because it would have several significant adverse effects on the ability of State and local governments, including my home State of Texas, to raise the revenue necessary to fund programs necessary to protect the health and safety, and promote the general welfare, of their citizens. 
   First, under the current, extremely broad definition of ``Internet access'' in the ITFA virtually all goods and services delivered over the Internet would be exempt from State and local taxation. Keeping this definition in a permanent ITFA could prevent States and localities from extending their conventional sales taxes to online music, movies, games, television programming, and similar products. 
   Many sellers of such content, even if they do not truly provide an end-user with a connection to the Internet, arguably are selling ``Internet access'' as defined in ITFA: ``a service that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over the Internet.'' For example, the ``Rhapsody'' service sold by RealNetworks, Inc. streams an unlimited amount of music on demand to a subscriber for a fixed monthly fee. RealNetworks literally is providing ``a service that enables users to access content ..... over the Internet.'' Accordingly, the company could take the position 
   that the Rhapsody service is tax-exempt ``Internet access'' under ITFA's definition and refuse to charge tax on it. 
   Also, the definition of ``Internet access'' includes ``access to proprietary content, information, and other services as part of a package of services offered to consumers.'' Nothing in this definition places any limits on the type or quantity of such ``content, information, and other services.'' Thus, any Internet access provider could achieve tax-exempt status for such content and services by ``bundling'' them with ``Internet access'' as conventionally understood and selling the package for a single, combined price. 
   Under this definition of ``internet access,'' States and localities would lose the hundreds of millions of dollars in annual revenue from their sales taxation of conventional cable TV service and the hard-media versions of music, movies, software, and computer games sold in stores. As is illustrated by the rapid growth of Apple Computer's iTunes music service, the majority of such ``digital content'' is likely to be distributed over the Internet eventually. The same is likely with respect to the majority of television programming, which in some parts of the country is already being distributed via so-called ``Internet Protocol TV'', IPTV. A permanent ITFA with a definition that seems to encompass all online content and services and that places no limits on what a telecommunications or cable TV company bundles with tax-exempt Internet access is likely to lead to a serious long-term drain on sales tax revenues. 
   Second, eliminating ITFA's grandfather clause could have far-reaching, unintended consequences by invalidating a wide array of state and local taxes currently paid by companies providing Internet access, such as sales taxes levied on their equipment purchases. ITFA defines a ``tax on Internet access'' as ``a tax on Internet access, regardless of whether such tax is imposed on a provider of Internet access or a buyer of Internet access.'' Because of the inclusion in the definition of taxes on Internet access providers, State and local officials have long been concerned that Internet access providers could take the position that a wide variety of taxes to which all types of businesses are subject constitute indirect taxes on Internet access services and are therefore banned by ITFA. 
   Acknowledging the legitimacy of such concerns, language was added to ITFA in 2004 expressly ``carving-out'' from the definition of a ``tax on Internet access'' four categories of taxes imposed on Internet access providers--taxes on ``net income, capital stock, net worth, or 
   property value.'' However, this list by no means covers all of the type of taxes Internet access providers may have to pay. For example, it does not include sales taxes on computer servers purchased by such companies or state unemployment compensation taxes. 
   The very limited coverage of the tax carve-out language added to ITFA in 2004 did not overly-concern State and local officials, because virtually all of the significant taxes on Internet access providers potentially at risk had been enacted prior to 1998. Accordingly, ITFA's general grandfather clause served as a back-stop to the explicit protection added in 2004. With the grandfather clause eliminated, however, all State and local taxes on Internet access providers other than the four types carved-out in the 2004 provision could be at risk. 
   It is not at all clear that States could convince a court that any taxes except for the four types explicitly named are still legal when applied to an Internet access provider. If anything, the fact that some taxes on Internet access providers were explicitly preserved might create an inference on the part of a court that Congress intended to ban all other taxes on providers. 
   Third, if ITFA's grandfather clause were repealed, State and local governments in Texas and eight other States would lose existing revenues from currently protected taxes on Internet access services. The State of Texas alone stands to lose more than $50 million in annual revenue. The other eight States--Hawaii, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin--and some of their local governments--would lose collectively between $30 million and $70 million in annual revenue flowing from previously-grandfathered taxes on Internet access services. 
   Revenue losses of this magnitude are sufficient to trigger the provisions of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, which classifies Federal preemptions of State and local taxing powers as an unfunded mandate. Most of the taxes directly affected by repeal of the grandfather clause are conventional State and local sales taxes that apply to a wide array of goods and services in addition to Internet access.  
   In and of itself, the direct impact of repeal of the grandfather clause on revenue in the affected States is not significant. In combination with the other impacts discussed above, however, State finances would be adversely affected. Due to balanced-budget requirements, Texas and the eight other States and their affected local governments would either have to reduce state services or increase other taxes to compensate for the lost revenue. 
   For all these reasons, I oppose making the Internet Tax Moratorium Act permanent. I strongly support H.R. 3678, which extends the moratorium for four years and retains the protections for Texas and other States that were grandfathered in the original legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this wise and beneficial legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING WITHHOLDING OF INFORMATION RELATING TO CORRUPTION IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 734, expressing the sense of House of Representatives regarding the withholding of information relating to corruption in Iraq, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Henry Waxman.  This important legislation recognizes the incongruities amongst reporting on the situation in Iraq and seeks to hold the Government accountable for the provision of and access to accurate and consistent information. 
   This resolution expresses the sense of the House that the State Department is misusing the national security classification process to withhold from the American people information about widespread and increasing corruption within the Government of Iraq. This misuse includes the retroactive classification of documents and directions to employees not to answer questions in an open forum that calls for ``broad statements/assessments which judge or characterize the quality of Iraqi governance or the ability/determination of the Iraqi government to deal with corruption, including allegations that investigations were thwarted/stifled for political reasons.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people have poured vast amounts of resources and treasure into the misguided war in Iraq. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, CBO, the U.S. is spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second. For this huge sum of money, we could have repaired the more than  70,000 bridges across America rated structurally deficient ($188 billion), potentially averting the tragedy that occurred August 1st in Minneapolis, MN. We could have rebuilt the levees in New Orleans ($50 billion), protecting that City from future hurricanes that could bring Katrina-like destruction upon the City. We could have provided all U.S. public safety officials with interoperable communication equipment ($10 billion), allowing them to effectively communicate in the event of an emergency, and we could have paid for screening all air cargo on passenger planes for the next 10 years ($3.6 billion). And, we could have enrolled 1.4 million additional children in Head Start programs ($10 billion). Instead of funding increased death and destruction in Iraq, we could have spent hard-earned taxpayer dollars on important progress here at home. 
   Given the enormous amount of resources involved, coupled with the catastrophic costs in human lives, we would certainly expect adequate oversight and management of U.S. funds and military supplies. We would expect clear records of exactly where those $10 billion a month is going, and to whom it is being given. And yet, the GAO reports that the Pentagon has lost track of over 190,000 weapons, given to Iraqis, particularly in 2004 and 2005. The report's author stated that the U.S. military does not know what happened to 30 percent of the weapons the United States distributed to Iraqi forces from 2004 through early this year as part of an effort to train and equip the troops. These weapons could be used to kill our American troops. 
   Americans who are footing this enormous bill deserve real answers about where their money is going. Recent indications have suggested that it is not being well spent. The recently released Government Accountability Office report on Iraqi progress toward the 18 legislative, economic, and security benchmarks indicated that only three of these benchmarks have been met by the Maliki government. Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the Iraqi Government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their country. The over 3,750 U.S. casualties and the $3,816 per second we are spending in Iraq have not bought peace or security. Mr. Speaker, the time has long passed for the Iraqi Government to step up to take control of their own nation. 
   However, as long as corruption remains endemic in Iraq, the government will find it difficult, if not impossible, to address the ongoing insurgency and to successfully achieve stability in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, leading experts have testified to the widespread corruption of the Iraqi Government, and that this problem continues to threaten our mission in Iraq as long as it's not effectively addressed. According to Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, corruption in Iraq is ``a second insurgency'' that ``stymies the construction and maintenance of Iraq's infrastructure, deprives people of goods and services, reduces confidence in public institutions, and potentially aids 
   insurgent groups reportedly funded by graft derived from oil smuggling or embezzlement.'' The Comptroller General of the United States, David Walker, agreed, testifying that ``widespread corruption undermines efforts to develop the government's capacity by robbing it of needed resources, some of which are used to fund the insurgency.'' 
   The State Department must answer questions about the extent of corruption in the government of Iraq, and how this corruption is undermining both our governments' abilities to successfully end the insurgency. Instead, however, on September 25, 2007, the State Department instructed officials not to answer questions in an open setting that asks for ``broad statements/assessments which judge or characterize the quality of Iraqi governance or the ability/determination of the Iraqi government to deal with corruption, including allegations that investigations were thwarted/stifled for political reasons.'' On top of this, the State Department retroactively classified portions of a report on Iraqi corruption previously released by Comptroller General Walker. 
   In order to emerge successfully from our war in Iraq, we must be able to understand the situation on the ground and have access to documents and information that will allow our troops and fund to go where they are most needed. While the administration has put forward in a myriad of reports a sunny picture of the situation in Iraq emphasizing the progress of a few over the majority. 
   This legislation is so significant because it addresses the corruption, within both the Iraqi and the United States Government, which have allowed for such a skewed perception of the reality in Iraq. This legislation illuminates the active work of the State Department in masking information on Iraq from public view. In order for this Congress to do its duty and protect its citizens, both at home and serving in our military overseas, it must be able to see what it is that its funds and soldiers are supporting overseas. Voices of dissent and honesty must be heard. We cannot continue to provide open-ended funding and protection for a government which has failed in its mission to be transparent and based in integrity. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve more. The men and women who have fallen in this war due to this endemic lack of information deserve more. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3997, EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentlelady from New York as the chairman of the Rules Committee, and particularly for the very hard work of the committee, and make note of the fact that it's almost 12:40 a.m. and there has been a lot of heavy lifting. And I want to acknowledge the work of our leadership, and particularly Chairman Frank and his staff, along with Speaker Pelosi and the entire team of very agile and very, if you will, comprehensive thinking team that was thrown a hard ball just a week ago by the administration, a two-and-a-half-page document that simply said, move the deity, if you will, from the person of faith and give it to the Secretary of Treasury. 
   We had a tough job. And I, frankly, believe that we did everything we could to ensure that we looked at this in the best way possible. But, Mr. Speaker, I come to suggest that all of the goals that were intended--transparency and consumer protection--clearly need further edification. And frankly, I would like to use the Texas term ``whoa.'' I believe that we need to stand back, monitor the markets, and to begin to craft legislation that is truly reform. 
   Let me tell you why. First of all, I know that my good friend from California gave us a detailed essay on some of the things that were not in this bill,  and he mentioned that people in America are living above their means. Well, I've been in a number of hearings, listening to homeowners from around the country on the issue of their mortgages. And I will tell you that these are hardworking Americans who were not living above their means; they were accepting the banking products that were given to them. They were hardworking, they saw the opportunity to invest in America's dream, a home, and they continued to work and pay their mortgages. But no one explained to them about adjustable rates so that their mortgage would be at one rate, and then a couple months or a year later it was accelerating into an unbelievable and intolerable amount. And then of course we've heard some Members of this body accuse minorities for being the cause of this debacle. How insulting. How unreal. And how untrue. 
   What we need to do is to work together, as my constituents have asked. One constituent said, show me what the catastrophic event would be. One said, I'm a community banker, and I have never loaned, if you will, a subprime loan. And I'm well capitalized, why am I being victimized? 
   This bill, at this status, will not protect any of the homeowners or get them the kind of relief we would like. 
   And so I say to this body, the Financial Stability Oversight Board does not have any enforcement. The Congressional Oversight Panel does not have any enforcement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3997, EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. As I quickly speak, the amendments I offered all capture the idea of protecting the consumer. It, in essence, provides judicial relief. 
   In this bill, it specifically prohibits the judiciary intervening for equitable or/and injunctive relief. That means that if the assets are being misused by the officer that we have designated, then the courts cannot go in. Where are the checks and balances? 
   I believe that these amendments that I offered dealing with these questions of balance and providing money for mortgages, and et cetera, would have made this a better bill. So I ask my colleagues to consider that, and of course to consider these 400 economists quoted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 186TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF GREECE AND CELEBRATING GREEK AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman and I thank my colleagues, my fellow member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Lantos, and the ranking member, Ms. ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN. Certainly, I have indicated already to Chairman Wexler thanks for his continued leadership. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise, of course, to acknowledge and certainly support recognizing the 186th anniversary of the independence of Greece and celebrating Greek and American democracy. Greece has been a long-term model, if you will, for the principles of democracy. Any of us who have had the honor of learning the Greek philosophers throughout our academic training know that the principles they have enunciated have been strong and lasting. 
   With that in mind as I celebrate the 186th anniversary, I commend my friends in Greece for their continued deliberations dealing with the issue of divide between the Turks and Greece, and I look forward to an opportunity that resolutions will come about that would solve some of those problems. 
   Might I, Mr. Wexler, also indicate my support for H. Res. 64, which speaks to the freedom of press and particularly expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the government of Bangladesh should immediately drop all charges against Bangladeshi journalist Salah Uddin Shoaib Choudhury. I say that in recognition of the principles of freedom of press. Whenever we have had the opportunity to interact in bilaterals through Members of Congress or parliamentarians, one of the key issues that are discussed is the right of the voice of the opposition, or the voice of difference to be expressed. I hope that this particular legislation will pass with a firm statement by this Congress that we are, if you will, asking for his release. 
   Might I also support H. Res. 107. I am an original cosponsor of this legislation calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the Israeli soldiers held captive by Hamas and Hezbollah. Let me say this, I have met with one of the family members of one of the captive soldiers. 
   I think what is important in this statement, because we know that King Abdullah just a few days ago came to this Congress and said, we can make a difference in the Palestinian-Israeli issue. This happens to be soldiers that are in Lebanon, and, frankly, I think the point should be made that Israel has, in fact, done what they said they would do in pulling back. 
   Whenever you get agreements that are kept, promises that are kept, then it seems that in the course of international collegiality or international decorum or international protocol that you have the opportunity to receive your soldiers back home, your loved ones back home. These young men, who are still being held, Gilad Shalit, Eldad Regev and Ehud Goldwasser, remain in captivity, even though the United Nations has, through passing United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, imposed a ceasefire on the Lebanon-Israel border. The resolution called for, and I quote, the unconditional release of the abducted Israeli soldiers. Even in the United Nations, which has a place for disparate voices and has a place for disagreement, we find that there is a call for their release. 
   So I would hope that this particular legislation is not taken as a negative, but it is taken in compliance with the United Nations' interests in countries, recognizing when agreements are made that we can move forward on the agreement, and the captivity of soldiers of another sovereign nation certainly argues against having a world forum that really works. 
   The United Nations has managed with all its difficulties to be a world forum. It has made a statement that they should be released. I would hope there would be enough resolve in Hezbollah and certainly in Hamas and others and in Lebanon, that whatever your viewpoint, you certainly should have the view to provide comfort to these families and have their loved ones returned. 
   So I ask again for support of the underlying bill; that is, H. Res. 228, and I add my support for H. Res. 64; and as a cosponsor of H. Res. 107, I add my support for that. 
   I conclude by simply saying that we have an opportunity to accept the challenge of King Abdullah in the way that we must know how to do it, and that is engagement and resolve for the best of all people in the Mideast. I hope that we will do so, and I would say to my friends in Lebanon, a good step and a good start would be the release, unconditional release of these soldiers.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 107, which calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Israeli soldiers held captive by Hamas and Hezbollah and expresses the Congress's support for a two-state resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
   Mr. Speaker, while the fighting between Israel and Hamas and Hezbollah has subsided, one of the initial causes for the war, has not yet been addressed. Three young men, Gilad Shalit, Eldad Regev, and Ehud Goldwasser, remain in captivity. 
   The fighting last summer ended when the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 1701, which imposed a ceasefire on the Israel-Lebanon border. That resolution unequivocally called for ``the unconditional release of the abducted Israeli soldiers.'' 
   Therefore, their ongoing captivity is ignoring the will of the international community. Indeed, Hamas and Hezbollah have not even allowed access to the Israeli captives by competent medical personnel and representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
   Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 107 expresses this Congress's vision for ``a resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through the creation of a viable and independent Palestinian state living in peace alongside of the State of Israel.'' But this vision cannot be achieved by continuing to hold these soldiers by Hamas and Hezbollah. 
   The United States cannot turn a blind eye when citizens of a fellow democracy fall prey to terrorists acts. Israeli soldiers must be released without delay and without preconditions, as the Security Council demands. That is also our demand. We will remain committed to the soldiers' freedom--for the sake of peace and to move toward a just resolution to these conflicts in the Mid East. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support the resolution sponsored by Mr. Ackerman, the chairman of the Middle East and South Asia Subcommittee. I urge all my colleagues to do so as well.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3867, SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, let me thank the distinguished gentleman from California (Mr. Cardoza), and thank the chairwoman and the ranking member of the full committee on the Small Business Administration, and acknowledge the important step that is being made here today dealing with insuring government contract opportunities for small businesses owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans. We are certainly going to have more of those. And every time you meet with a veterans group they wonder what are the opportunities for them. 
   Small businesses are the backbone of America and I do support this with legislation. I also hope, however, that this bill does not do harm to the HUBZones that have been used by many small businesses across America. And as we review it, I will look closely at this legislation to ensure that HUBZones are protected. 
   And I ask the question as to the formula that requires a site visit to the small business and background checks. I know for sure that many in the minority community use a small business as a step of opportunity out of a past that might not have been as they would have liked it to be. People who are rehabilitated who move forward in life should have an opportunity to provide for their families, and I would hope that that would be the framework of this particular legislation, that we're not doing harm to those opportunities because this is America. 
   And then I certainly would have wanted to have the amendment that I offered that indicated in times of natural disaster and/or an act of terrorism that small minority and women-owned and disabled veterans businesses be utilized in the area of the disaster. Certainly, if there is a disaster, those small businesses may be impacted. But what we saw in Hurricane Katrina, we saw the misuse of the small businesses who were there, meaning that they did not have the opportunity to, one, save the government money, but, at the same time, do the job on behalf of their community of which they loved. And so I hope that we will be able to work this language in, maybe through conference, because I think it is an important sense of Congress' statement, and I also hope that we will protect those HUBZones and make sure that we reaffirm the opportunities for all small businesses across America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERNET TAXATION MORATORIUM -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today on the floor of the House we addressed the question of Internet taxation moratorium, a bill that came out of my House Judiciary Committee, the Judiciary Committee which I sit on under the leadership of JOHN CONYERS. 
   Because I was unavoidably detained, I wanted to congratulate the passage of this bill and to support the moratorium as relates to grandfathering in those States that already had the utilization of Internet taxation, such as my State of Texas. 
   We know that this will take a long debate on this question. We understand that there are issues on both sides. Those who are in the Internet superhighway, who want a free flowing of information and ability to buy and sell, that is a reasonable request. 
   But we also know that more and more Americans will be moving toward Internet shopping and utilization, and for many local jurisdictions and States, this is a source of income that is well needed for health care and education. 
   I support the Internet resolution that passed today, and I am grateful for the grandfathering of the State of Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROCEDURAL FAIRNESS FOR SEPTEMBER 11 VICTIMS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2106, the Senate companion to H.R. 3921, the ``Procedural Fairness for September 11th Victims Act of 2007.'' This legislation amends the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act to allow those September 11th victims and their families who opted out of receiving compensation through the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund to have nation-wide subpoena power when litigating September 11th claims. It is necessary to make this change because presently all parties involved in litigating September 11th claims--victims, victims' families and defendants--must do so in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The problem occurs because under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, no party may compel testimony or documents from non-party witnesses who do not live within 100 miles of the Southern District of New York. This bill would provide for nation-wide subpoena power for all parties. The court however, would retain its authority to modify or quash any subpoena that it determined to be too burdensome. 
   Mr. Speaker, within 11 days of the September 11th attacks, Congress drafted, debated, adopted and signed into law the Air Transportation Safety and Systems Stabilization Act (ATSSSA), 49 U.S.C. Section 40101. Among other things, this legislation included assistance to the airline industry and created an optional alternative compensation program for individual victims killed or injured by the events of September 11th (the September 11th Compensation Fund). The United States District Court for the Southern District of New York was designated as the only court with ``original and exclusive jurisdiction over all actions brought'' arising out of the attacks of September 11th. The objective was to consolidate all litigation arising out of September 11th events in one location before a single court that could adjudicate all the claims in a thorough, efficient, equitable and fair proceeding. 
   Given the justifiable interest of Congress in expediting assistance to the airline industry and creating a mechanism to provide compensation to the persons who bore the brunt of the national trauma occurring on September 11th, it is understandable that the Congress did not give due regard to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 45, which provides for service of trial subpoena to non-party witnesses in the district or State where the case was filed or anyplace within 100 miles of the district that the court proceedings will take place (the ``100 mile bulge''). 
   The upshot, Mr. Speaker, is that in the absence of this minor change, subpoenas would be limited to within 100 miles of the Southern District of New York (within 100 miles of Manhattan) and could not reach the geographically significant and relevant locales of Boston, Massachusetts (from where flights American Airlines 11 and United Airlines 175 originated) and Washington Dulles Airport (from where American Airlines flight 77 originated). 
   Pending before the District Court for the Southern District of New York is the consolidated action, In re September 11 Litigation, in which representatives of a number of passengers and ground victims (including claims brought by those who came to the World Trade Center disaster site to assist with the debris removal effort following the attacks), as well as an array of parties suing for property damage and consequential economic loss are seeking recovery from a group of defendants including airline companies, airport security firms, airport authorities, the Boeing Corporation and others. 
   This litigation focuses not only on the events that occurred at the Twin Towers in Manhattan but also hundreds of miles away at Washington's Dulles Airport, Boston's Logan Airport and various other locations around the Nation, including the headquarters for each of the various airlines and security companies. It has become clear that in order for the September 11th victims, their families, and the defendants to have access to all the evidence relevant to the case, it is necessary to make available at trial non-party witnesses from Massachusetts, Virginia, and elsewhere. The legislation before us accomplishes this limited objective. 
   H.R. 3921 is non-controversial, bipartisan and bicameral. There has been no opposition to the bill from any interested sectors. the legislation is identical to S. 2106, which was introduced by Senator Biden of Delaware on September 27, 2007 and passed by unanimous consent in the Judiciary Committee and the full Senate the following day. That bill was referred to the House Judiciary Committee as the sole referral. Mr. Speaker, for the reasons stated, I strongly support H.R. 3921 and urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this wise and beneficial legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY SECURITY ACT OF 2008--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-115) -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished chairman. Let me rise to indicate the broad opposition to the veto of the President on this agricultural bill, and I'm going to try to rush through some very vital issues that are of concern to many of us. 
   I just came back from Haiti and recognized the crisis that our very good friend and neighbor, the poorest country in the western hemisphere. The good news is that President Preval, who asked us to create an opportunity for jobs in a country that is hungry and lacks jobs, the Haiti trade provisions were in the bill, but unfortunately vetoed which causes us an urgent necessity to override this veto. The Caribbean Basin Initiative extension is a vital part. 
   But yet I look forward to us fixing the parts that included the trade title that left out the food aid, very important; McGovern-Dole, which is food for education; giving girls the incentives to come to school. And then the market access problems that are crucial. 
   We know there are 850 million hungry people in the world; 300 million of them are children; 40 percent of those in Haiti eat one meal a day. We are in a crisis. 
   This is a crucial legislative initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY SECURITY ACT OF 2008--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-115) -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. So what we are talking about here, I think there is something important to bipartisanship. Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, thank you for this. I've lived around the edges of the agriculture bill ever since I came here from Texas. We know about specialty crops. We know about ranches and farms. I think you did a great job for these fruits and vegetable farmers because you give them an incentive to get to market. 
   And thank you for what you've done for the black farmers, especially on Pigford, where you allowed those late filers--I've always heard from them throughout the work on the Judiciary Committee to get back in the court by being able to file again. We are delighted that you also give them a greater access; you allow them to have transparency and accountability in the USDA, and I'm glad that what we do is try to preserve the black farmers. 
   This is an important bill. Let's fix the trade part of it, but let's join together and override a bill that promotes energy and food and understands you can't have a food fight when people are starving. 
   I urge our colleagues to vote to override the veto. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6049, Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008. I would like to thank my colleague the Chairman of Ways and Means, Congressman Charles Rangel for bringing this energy legislation forward . 
   The bill extends dozens of expired or expiring tax provisions, and extends and creates new energy-related tax incentives for the production of wind and other renewable energy and for homeowners' investment in solar and fuel cell equipment. 
   Texas has invested in the production of wind and is looking to come up with more ways to aid us in energy conservation and harnessing our natural resources in a way that does not damage the environment. 
   There is an undeniable consensus on the importance of America achieving energy independence in the 21st century. It is critical that we terminate our dependence on foreign sources of oil, the majority of which are located in regions of the world which are unstable and in most circumstances, opposed to our interests. Accordingly, there is no issue more essential to our economic and national security than energy independence. 
   By investing in renewable energy and increasing access to potential sources of energy, I believe we can be partners with responsible members of America's energy producing community in our collective goal of reaching energy independence. 
   Houston, Texas, is the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years I have been the Chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of Energy Braintrusts designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. 
   My Energy Braintrusts were designed to be a call of action to all of the sectors that comprise the American and international energy industry, to the African American community, and to the nation as a whole. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. Bringing together thoughtful yet distinct voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a nation achieve energy security and energy independence. 
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. The energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation will aid Americans as we seek to wean ourselves from our foreign oil dependence. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6049. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - October 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman from Ohio. I must say that she is representative of the talent and the commitment of members of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
   Let me say, Mr. Speaker, that we are very proud of this Congress. We are proud of all of our colleagues. We may agree or disagree with our friends across the aisle, but we know that they bring to bear great talent. We are proud of the Democratic Caucus, with our leadership, Speaker Pelosi; Majority Leader Hoyer; Majority Whip Mr. Clyburn; and, of course, our chairman, RAHM EMANUEL; Vice Chairman JOHN LARSON; and, of course, the distinguished gentleman who chairs the DCCC, for his leadership. 
   When we speak of the Congressional Black Caucus, we really speak of them in the framework of providing conscious and pointed leadership in many areas. I must say that the distinguished gentlewoman from Ohio has always reminded us that you can be a benevolent prosecutor. You can have the spirited forcefulness that is necessary to ensure that people understand that they must follow the law, and that if you do the crime, you must do the time. But, at the same time, you can have a sense of fairness. I am so proud that she has brought her leadership to this place. I will quickly speak of some issues and then move to this question of why this is such a crucial special hour. 
   Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned, the gentlewoman from Ohio is not only a prosecutor and former judge herself, but she likewise now brings that to bear on several issues. I am going to speak very briefly about our members who engage in criminal justice and homeland security, but she is now the chairperson of the Ethics Committee. What a wonderful balance, recognizing that we must self-regulate, but yet she is firm and fair. 
   So, with the 17 cochairs that we have who are members of the Congressional Black Caucus, we are able to spread out and have a visible impact, from Transportation, Homeland Security, Education, to a number of issues that these subcommittee Chairs are engaged in, and working with JOHN CONYERS, the chairman of Judiciary; the chairman of the Ways and Means, CHARLIE RANGEL; and the chairman of Homeland Security. 
   But let me tell you why I think that we are most relevant to be speaking of this, if you will, confirmation hearing tomorrow, because members of the Congressional Black Caucus have worked on issues. In fact, tomorrow, Madam Chairwoman, we will be holding a hearing on selective prosecution, held by Chairman Conyers, because that is something that has plagued our judicial system. That is why I am going to lead into this circumstance with Judge Southwick. 
   Then, of course, there is legislation that we filed, No More Tulias. That was a place where the prosecution relied on one police officer, a rogue cop, by the way, and I love my law enforcement, I work very well with them, who, unfortunately, pointed the finger at 50 African Americans or more, who were ultimately prosecuted and went to jail because of one officer's testimony, no other witnesses. And this is the issue that we face, the politicizing of U.S. Attorneys. JOHN CONYERS focused on it. 
   But my good friends Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES and DANNY DAVIS, and so many of us who were cosponsors, led on the Second Chance bill. So she balanced prosecution with recognizing that people should have a  second chance. This came out of the bowels, if you will, of the Congressional Black Caucus, the criminal justice system being fair. 
   Then, of course, she mentioned the Jena Six. I want to just frame this not by the Congressional Black Caucus affirming bad behavior. We have sons. We have daughters. We have children. We have children that go to schools, public schools. But the question that we just can't get over is how three young people that hung nooses that triggered the bad feelings then get a pass. Fine. Someone administratively decided we want these young people to stay in school. That is their decision. But then you take young people of color and you decide that they should be in the adult criminal justice system. 
   So the African American community looked to the Congressional Black Caucus to make a stand. I am delighted that, with the leadership of Chairwoman CAROLYN KILPATRICK, we have worked with the lawyers, we have worked with civil rights activists to keep this before us. The good time early release bill, because in the federal system there is no parole. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus have focused on nonviolent criminals who have been in prison for a period of time getting considered for good time early release. We have spent $100,000 a year, almost, for the 2.4 million people that are in the federal system. 
   The SCHIP bill was led by convening leadership of Majority Whip CLYBURN, working with CHARLIE RANGEL. But we stood fast to say: No backing down on the SCHIP bill. Of course BENNIE THOMPSON, my chairperson, was able to pass for the first time the 9/11 bill. 
   That leads me to why we are here talking about Judge Southwick, and a personal story. I am a voting rights baby. This district that I represent, represented first by Barbara Jordan and then by Mickey Leland, would not have existed but for the 1965 Voting Rights Act that then provided the representation not at large, but by district. 
   Many people don't know that Barbara Jordan ran over and over again in Houston, Texas, and lost, because she had to run countywide, citywide. It was only when they carved out or were able to get a senatorial district that concentrated diverse people, that concentrated African 
   Americans, that she was elevated to the State Senate. So the Fifth Circuit was the place of first Federal response, beyond the district courts, to save us from the discriminatory practices that were going on in the South, and Texas is the South. 
   So when Judge Southwick has cavalierly used the ``N'' word, and, by the way, the NAACP buried that word, and most of us know it is an offensive word, despite the first amendment, then I can't imagine that the Senate tomorrow is even going to think about affirming this individual. Because he ruled that a white employee who had been fired for calling an African American coworker a good old ``N,'' he thought that that certainly was equivalent to calling somebody a teacher's pet. 
   But go back to the Jena Six. That is the same response the Department of Justice under Bush gave us, that we didn't think it was important to chastise, to admonish, to prosecute three young people who hung a noose, and the noose epidemic is going around America. 
   So here you want to elevate someone to the Fifth Circuit who believes that the ``N'' word is equal to, that it is like ``teacher's pet.'' The Mississippi Supreme Court, by the way, unanimously reversed Southwick. 
   He has also rejected defense claims that prosecutors struck African American jurors based on race. I know it firsthand as a lawyer. We see it every day in the Harris County courthouse when the prosecution in down-south Houston, Texas, repeatedly rejects African American jurors. So that is not the temperament for being on the Fifth Circuit, because we appeal those cases to you. 
   His expressed views also raised doubts about his ability to rule fairly in cases involving the civil rights of gays and lesbians. We have gotten past that in the United States Congress. In fact, we understand you have employee rights not to be discriminated against in the workplace or anywhere in America. What will that do for us to be able to have a judge on the Fifth Circuit that has no understanding that we are diverse? 
   Then, of course, one other point that I am going to make before I close, one of the most important privileges is the privilege of being in the workplace safe and secure without discrimination, and it has been proven that Judge Southwick is not one that supports the rights of workers and the victims who suffer personal injury. 
   What it means is that you come before his court, obviously on appeal, and whether it be a malpractice case or whether if be a huge personal injury case, then he has not been warmly received or well received, these cases. 
   So I would simply ask, when you talk about judicial temperament, for those of us who are heavily dependent on the equality and balance of the judiciary, I reminded my colleagues and others in the hearing last week that the Federal Government is the ``rainy day umbrella.'' That is why we were so frustrated with Hurricane Katrina and the response by this administration, because we looked to the Federal Government as that last stopgap. 
   So those of us in the South look to the Federal Government, whether it was John F. Kennedy calling down when Martin Luther King was in jail or Eisenhower sent the troops into Little Rock, we look to the Federal Government. All of us do. 
   So you are going to put on the bench someone who is predisposed that the ``N'' word is just a ``funny word,'' and then those of us who go to the Fifth Circuit on redistricting cases, short of the law that already exists, can't expect any relief because why do you ``N'' people need to have districts that you are able to vote on someone from communities of interest, in essence, or someone who is representative of your perspective or your view? That is what we get with the affirmation of Judge Southwick. 
   So I am going to make a personal plea to Senators who might have voted in the committee and whoever wants to take this plea to recognize the pain that would be generated from the affirmation of Judge Southwick. It is untenable. For those of us who want to hold up this flag that I am looking at right now as representative of all of America, the Stars and Stripes, that we would allow him to be affirmed. Letting him stay where he is, fine. I welcome his continued service. But the Fifth Circuit, the next court subject to appeal down from the Supreme Court, we cannot afford someone who would be so intolerable that they would disrespect workers, disrespect those who would be the victims of using the ``N'' word, those who are gay and lesbian who deserve the privileges of every citizen, and certainly does not respect the right of everyone to serve as a juror in order for someone to be tried by a jury of their peers. 
   Congresswoman, I am more than appalled that we would be here tonight to have to entreat, to encourage, to demand, to cajole, if you will, to express outrage, that we have to defend our position for someone who is certainly both untenable and certainly seemingly without the temperament to judge on behalf of the United States of America. I ask my good friends in the Senate, I ask the other body to consider the words of those of us who are here on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus and this conscience that America deserves. 
   I thank the distinguished gentlewoman, and I hope these words are not in vain. Frankly, I hope that we will have a good day tomorrow so that we can make America a better place to live.     
   Another interesting thing, because the Supreme Court only takes cases that they choose, and in the law we use the term certiorari which means certification, that the Supreme Court certifies it is an issue that they want to take up, the Fifth Circuit Court and all the circuit courts become like the Supreme Court for almost every other case that will never reach the Supreme Court, and that is what makes a nomination to the circuit court even that much more important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - October 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. The gentlewoman has made an excellent point, and let me emphasize the word ``supreme.'' It is the top Court, nine justices. They selectively select cases they will review. There are 11 circuits.  The circuits obviously are more plentiful than the Supreme Court. And sometimes that circuit court, in this instance the Fifth Circuit Court, will often be the court of last resort for many. 
   Also, before the court was split between the fifth and the 11th, the Fifth Circuit Court was the bountiful court of all civil rights cases. It covered at that time from Mississippi to Alabama, to both Carolinas, Georgia, down through Louisiana and back over to Texas. We were all under the Fifth Circuit. It might have even included Arkansas; I am not sure of that. 
   But all of the civil rights cases, all of these cases that ultimately were pursued, some of the cases, some of the old murder cases that were not taken up by the State systems ultimately went to the district courts and then might have made their way to the circuit court. 
   This court is a court of first impression on many civil rights cases. When I say that, making the cases end at the Fifth Circuit on many of them. In the old days, might I say, the Fifth Circuit of LBJ and Carter, those judges understood the pain of civil rights cases. They understood the redistricting cases and they understood the Voting Rights Act. They understood that they were not making law. They understood affirmative action cases. 
   You're right, these circuit courts now become courts that are the last refuge for many petitioners and litigants. 
   And on the jury selection case if you were to take it up on appeal, this attitude that African American jurors can be stricken and it is not a race question would be devastating. Might I say, the Jena Six case was a white judge, was a white prosecutor and an all-white jury for Michael Bell. And as I understand it, let me say this on the floor so I can correct it if I am wrong, they said that they noticed African American jurors. The African American jurors said they didn't get the notice, and some who came got there too late and so the jury pool was not diverse. If something had occurred that ultimately would be taken up on appeal to a Federal court, look who we would have to assess the case, Judge Southwick. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING FLAGS ON GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1182 introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Filner. This important legislation seeks to express the sense of the House of Representatives that American flags flown on Federal Government buildings and on Federal property be made in the United States. 
   On June 14, 1777, the Stars and Stripes were officially adopted as the national flag of the United States. Francis Scott Key was so inspired by the sight of the American flag still flying over Baltimore's Fort McHenry after a British bombardment that he wrote the ``Star-Spangled Banner'' on September 14, 1814. The American flag has 7 red and 6 white horizontal stripes; these stripes represent the 13 original States. 
   The flag still has its field of blue, which represents the Union and contains 50 stars, one for each State. Many brave men and women have fought and died for the freedom that this flag represents. The sight of this banner brings feelings of joy, courage, pride, and unity for all Americans. Therefore, it should be the sense of the United States House of Representatives that all American flags flown over Federal buildings be entirely produced in the United States. 
   For more than 200 years, the American flag has been the symbol of our Nation's strength and unity. It's been a source of pride and inspiration for millions of citizens. And the American Flag has been a prominent icon in our national history. On June 14, 1777, in order to establish an official flag for the new Nation, the Continental Congress passed the first Flag Act, ``resolved that the flag of the United States be made of thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the Union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing a new Constellation.'' 
   Between 1777 and 1960, Congress passed several acts that changed the shape, design and arrangement of the flag and allowed for additional stars and stripes to be added to reflect the admission of each new state. Executive Order of President Eisenhower dated January 3, 1959--provided for the arrangement of the stars in seven rows of seven stars each, staggered horizontally and vertically. Executive Order of President Eisenhower dated August 21, 1959--provided for the arrangement of the stars in nine rows of stars staggered horizontally and eleven rows of stars staggered vertically which made official the design of the flag that we know today. 
   Therefore, we should not reserve the right to make our Nation's flag at home, where blood was shed by brave men who had a vision for a free country rooted in democracy and justice. Although we may outsource many things, I support that we preserve the integrity of the symbol that serves as the very essence of our national anthem. This anthem serves to remind us of the United States flag, also known as the Star-Spangled Banner, which waves over the land of the free and the home of the brave. When we rise to pledge allegiance to our country, we place our hand over our beating heart; then we sing the delicate notes of the Star-Spangled Banner, but most of all we fix our gaze upon our Nation's flag. This time of reverence serves as a moment of introspection. Not until we fully come to grips with ourselves can we apply the wisdom that is needed to gather solutions for international issues. 
   Our Nation was founded upon the principles of liberty, equality and justice, which are reflected by the symbol of our Nation's flag. Therefore, I strongly support this powerful resolution that says that flags flown on Federal Government buildings and on Federal property be made in the United States. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS PILOT EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 3218, the ``Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008''. First, I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Adam Schiff of California, for introducing this much-needed piece of legislation. This bill will amend the ``PROTECT Act of 2003'' by extending for six months the currently expiring Child Safety Pilot Program. This program will allow certain volunteer organizations to obtain national and state criminal history background checks on their volunteers. I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this act. 
   The ``Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008'' is critical because it will ensure that our Nation's children remain safe from predators and sex-offenders. By allowing volunteer organizations working with children the option of State and Federal background checks, we protect our children from our greatest fear: that the very organizations that set out to help our children, inadvertently harm them. 
   The ``PROTECT Act of 2003'' was aimed at defending children from the horrors of exploitation, abuse, and abduction. Yet, if we fail to act now, the act's 60-month ``Child Safety Pilot Program'' will expire. We cannot afford to leave volunteer groups without this critical tool, and in the process leave countless children at risk. 
   Upon enactment, the ``Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008'' will extend by 6 months the ``Child Safety Pilot Program'', and will allow certain volunteer organizations to continue utilizing the national and state criminal history background checks. With passage of this act, we take one step forward to a day when all the children of our Nation are safe from the harms and horrors of abuse.  
   Currently in the US, there are over 100,000 cases of child abuse, abduction, or exploitation, each year. It is imperative that we do not allow this number to escalate out of carelessness. Why should we allow an extra Amber Alert to occur when it would be so easy to prevent? 
   The Amber Alert Network which was first implemented in the State of Texas is an important element in attaining a truly secure environment. This system is part of an additional level of protection. Yet, programs like Amber Alert lose their significance when they are not accompanied by meaningful precautions. The background checks that the ``Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008'' makes possible, allow us to stop Amber Alerts before they happen. 
   I have always seen the safety of children as an issue of tremendous importance. Whether it is through this bill, protecting children from sex-offenders, or in recent legislation such as H.R. 3397, safeguarding children against lead-poisoning, or in other acts improving school safety, I believe that the well-being of our children must be one of our foremost concerns. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this act to protect the children of Texas' 18th and the children of our Nation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REGULATORY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3564, Regulatory Improvement Act of 2007. The administrative conference was first created inside the Department of Justice by President Kennedy. Later, it was moved out of the Department of Justice by President Johnson. The mission was a private partnership to discuss administrative law and regulatory system and how to make it better. Supreme Court Justices Breyer and Scalia served on the Conference before becoming Justices and both have testified in the past for its re-authorization. This bill reauthorizes the Administrative Conference. I support this bill and I encourage my colleagues to do likewise. 
   The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS), an independent agency and advisory committee created in 1968, studied U.S. administrative processes with an eye to recommending improvements to Congress and agencies. From 1968 to 1995, the ACUS issued approximately 200 recommendations, most of which have been at least partially implemented. Congressional funding for ACUS was terminated in 1995. 
   ACUS's recommendations were published periodically in the Code of Federal Regulations prior to 1995. Little known ``outside the Beltway,'' ACUS was a unique entity. Comprised of between 75 and 101 individuals drawn from agencies, academia, and the private sector, the Conference was classified as both an independent agency and a federal advisory committee. Organizationally, it consisted of a Chair, a Council, and an Assembly. The Chair, appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate for a five-year term, was responsible for the day-to-day activities and supervision of the 18 permanent staff. The Council, which functioned like a board of directors, consisted of ten members appointed by the President for three-year terms, five of whom were always current senior federal officials. The Assembly was made up of the Chair, the Council, and the other members of the Conference, a majority of whom had to come from government service. All of the members (other than the Chair) served without compensation. 
   The primary, although not exclusive, function of the Conference was to study administrative processes with an eye to recommending improvements to Congress and the agencies. It performed this function by commissioning studies by law professors expert in the administrative process that then were reviewed by one of six standing committees: adjudication, administration, governmental processes, judicial review, regulation, and rulemaking. The recommendations developed by committees of the Conference would be considered for adoption by the Assembly in plenary sessions, which were typically held twice a year. 
   The improvements occasioned by the Conferences recommendations are legion. Inasmuch as the Conference never had the power to impose its recommendations on unwilling subjects, the fact that so many of its recommendations bore fruit is a testimony to their intrinsic sense. Some, like the Conference's recommendation in 1968, its first year of operation, to eliminate a jurisdictional amount in suits under the APA, were followed by Congress in passing new legislation. Another example is its recommendation to provide administrative penalty authority to agencies to increase the effectiveness of agency enforcement activities at lower cost, first proposed by the Conference in 1972 and since adopted by Congress in over 200 statutes. A third is its 1980 recommended solution to unseemly races to the courthouse in rulemaking appeals, adopted by Congress in 1988. 
   Other recommendations, like the Conference's early recommendation to eliminate the exemption from the APA's notice-and-comment requirements for rules relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, and contracts, were sufficiently influential to lead agencies to adopt the recommendations on their own. Its recommendation in 1988 on Presidential Transition Workers' Code of Ethical Conduct were used by President Bush as the basis for his transition standards of conduct, and the Clinton administration likewise followed what had become standard procedures. From 1968 to 1995, the Conference issued approximately 200 recommendations, most of which have been at least partially implemented. 
   Probably the area in which the Conference had its greatest influence was in introducing and supporting the use of alternative dispute resolution techniques in agency practice. Its recommendation in 1982 provided procedures by which agencies could negotiate proposed regulations, and it followed the recommendation with support and encouragement to agencies to experiment with this new technique. Ultimately, Congress adopted the Negotiated Rulemaking Act in 1990, virtually copying the procedures contained in the Conference's original recommendation. Similarly, in 1986 the Conference issued the first of some fifteen recommendations on using alternative means of dispute resolution in agency adjudications. In 1990 Congress again followed the Conference's lead and enacted the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act. Recognizing the Conference's leadership role in this area, that Act gave the Conference the principal role for coordinating and promoting ADR in the federal government. 
   Another area in which the Conference had a major influence involved its study of Presidential review of agency rulemaking undertaken during the Reagan administration. This was a subject that had the potential to become highly partisan, but the Conference's reputation for neutrality and expertise enabled it to review the practice, generally validate its exercise, and makes certain recommendations to improve its openness and public acceptability. Because of the Conference's track record of useful and expert studies of the administrative process, all the regulatory reform bills considered by the Senate in the last session included provisions for the Conference to study the effects of the legislation. 
   The Conference's contribution to administrative law and procedure was not limited just to studies. Drawing on its expertise, ACUS issued numerous publications designed to assist agencies in their administrative processes. For example, in 1972 the Conference published the first edition of its Manual for Administrative Law Judges (now in its 3d edition); in 1978 it published its Interpretive Guide to the Government in the Sunshine Act; in 1981 it issued Model Rules for Agency Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act. The latter two of these documents were responsive to Congress' requirement for agencies to consult with the Conference in implementing these statutes. In addition, the Conference has published sourcebooks on Federal Administrative Procedure, Negotiated Rulemaking, and Alternative Dispute Resolution, as well as the Guide to Federal Agency Rulemaking. 
   Finally, in recent years, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Congress authorized the Conference to lend its expertise to newly emerging democracies in their creation of administrative law and procedures. As a result, the Conference sponsored seminars in the Ukraine, Hungary, the People's Republic of China, and South Africa. 
   The ABA has long been a strong supporter of the Conference, and over the years the Conference and the Section on Administrative Law and Regulatory Practice have enjoyed a close and mutually supportive relationship. This bill reauthorizes the administrative conference. 
   I support this Act and encourage my colleagues to support it also.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished member of the Judiciary Committee and the manager of the minority side, as well as the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Conyers; the ranking member, Mr. Smith; the subcommittee Chair, Mr. Scott; and the ranking member, Mr. Gohmert. 
   As a member of the subcommittee on crime and a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, I rise with great enthusiasm to support H.R. 5057, the Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008. 
   And I salute Mr. and Mrs. Smith. This is not a new bill to me. Congresswoman Maloney has worked very hard and has engaged the many women of the Congress to look at this issue in many, many different ways. We thank you, Debbie Smith for your courage, and we thank you for your bravery. 
   This is an important initiative. There are many improvements that have made this bill even better, but had it not been for Debbie Smith and her courage, we would not be where we are today. 
   As my colleague has already said, this bill was named for Debbie Smith who was kidnapped in her Virginia home and raped by a stranger. The Debbie Smith DNA backlog grant bill authorized grant money to States to collect samples from crime scenes and convicted persons. 
   This legislation also allows us to conduct DNA analysis and enter these results into a comprehensive national database. Debbie Smith's attacker remained unidentified for over 6 years, until a DNA sample collected from a convicted person serving time in Virginia State prison revealed his involvement in her rape. Although eventually identified, the 6 years between crime and identification allowed Ms. Smith's attacker to engage in more criminal activity. 
   What is the purpose and value of this legislation? It is to ensure that the perpetrator, the person who has acted in a violent and heinous way, is tried and convicted in a direct and fair and just manner, and that this individual is taken off the streets in order not to harm anyone else. 
   I am very gratified that we have expanded this legislation and that it is also an opportunity not only to ensure that those who have committed the crime are ``doing the time'' but to make sure that DNA is accurate and untainted for a fair and just results. 
   I support this legislation, and therefore, I offered a successful amendment that would require the Attorney General to evaluate the integrity and security of DNA collection and storage practices and procedures at a sample of crime laboratories throughout the country to determine the extent to which DNA samples are tampered with or are otherwise contaminated in such laboratories. This is crucial. A person who should be convicted and is still walking the streets, can create more danger, and those who have been tried and incarcerated on contaminated DNA deserve a fair and just recommendation of their case. Contaminated DNA helps no one and this amendment corrects that problem. 
   The sample should be a representative sample and should include at least one lab from each State. My amendment would require the Attorney General to conduct this evaluation annually, and the Attorney General would be required to submit the evaluation to Congress. This amendment is necessary, and it authorizes some $10 million over a 5-year period to allow this process to occur. 
   In Harris County, Texas, and other places around the Nation, DNA evidence was contaminated and wrongfully used to convict persons based upon faulty evidence. An investigation into the crime lab in Houston, for example, revealed that bad management, undertrained staff, false documentation, and inaccurate work cast doubt on thousands of DNA-based convictions. Investigators raised serious questions about the reliability of evidence in hundreds of cases they investigated and asked for further independent scrutiny and new testing to determine the extent to which individuals were wrongly convicted with faulty evidence. 
   Two individuals, Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Joshua Sutton, were victimized by this faulty DNA process. Both served time in jail and were released when their cases were properly reviewed.     
   This is evidence that my amendment helps an already good bill, which will help victims like Mrs. Smith, but it also provides the added integrity to this system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. My amendment ensures that Congress will exercise the appropriate oversight over the DNA Data Collection Program. It will ensure the integrity and security of the DNA collection and storage procedures. It is my hope that my amendment will minimize wrongful convictions and will make the DNA storage and collection process more reliable. 
   When such a sacrifice has been made by someone as brave as Mrs. Smith, along with the work that has been done by my colleague, Congresswoman Maloney, and this Congress, it further enhances the Nation's criminal justice system. We all agree, the criminal justice system should convict those who have done these dastardly acts, incarcerate them through a fair process of justice. And then, those who are innocent, make sure that the criminal justice system has the tools to insure them not guilty through transparent DNA evidence.  
   This is the way the American's justice system should be. We want this open fair system as much for Harris County, Texas, as we want it for Los Angeles, Chicago, and other places around the Nation. 
   This bill is a bill of integrity and fairness, and it upholds the fair justice system of the United States of America.  
   Mr. Speaker, this act authorizes funding to eliminate the large backlogs of DNA crime scene samples awaiting testing in State forensic labs. I am in support of this bill. 
   In recent years, law enforcement agencies have realized the critical value that DNA evidence has in quickly solving cases. Often, a DNA sample result can scientifically link a perpetrator to a crime or prove a defendant's innocence with virtual certainty. Many of the Nation's Federal and State criminal forensics laboratories currently are overwhelmed with innumerable samples awaiting DNA analysis. 
   Named for Debbie Smith, who was kidnapped in her Virginia home and raped by a stranger, the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program authorized grant money to States to collect samples from crime scenes and convicted persons, conduct DNA analyses, and enter these results into a comprehensive national database. Debbie Smith's attacker remained unidentified for over six years, until a DNA sample collected from a convicted person serving time in a Virginia State prison revealed his involvement in her rape. Although eventually identified, the six years between crime and identification allowed Ms. Smith's attacker to engage in more criminal activity. 
   Reauthorization of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program will help law enforcement throughout the Nation. It will facilitate the development of a comprehensive national data base against which samples from current crime scenes can be compared. It will allow laboratories to reduce the currently unacceptable delays in processing DNA samples. Finally, it will provide law enforcement and prosecutors strong tools to quickly identify and prosecute criminals, minimizing the costs of investigation and prosecution, the possibility of prosecuting the wrong person and the possibility of future heinous crimes. 
   Recognizing that the backlog of biological evidence that had to be entered in State databases was preventing law enforcement officials from solving many of the Nation's most heinous crimes, like the tragedy that befell Debbie Smith, Congress passed the DNA ``Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000'' (P.L. 106-546). The bill authorized the Attorney General to make grants to eligible States to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and crime scenes for inclusion in the Federal DNA database, Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), and to increase the capacity of State crime laboratories. The act required the Bureau of Prisons and the military to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and forward these samples for analysis, and required the FBI to expand its CODIS database to include the analyses of these DNA samples. 
   The act also amended the criminal code to require all defendants on probation or supervised release to cooperate with the collection of a DNA sample. The act expressed the sense of Congress that State grants should be conditioned upon the State's agreement to ensure post-conviction DNA testing in appropriate cases; and that Congress should work with the States to improve the quality of legal representation in capital cases. Finally, the act authorized an unspecified amount of appropriations to the Attorney General to carry out the act. 
   In 2004, DNA backlog elimination was incorporated into the Justice for All Act of 2004'', P.L. 108-405 and was renamed the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program, which became Title II of P.L. 108-405. While the act authorized $151 million for each fiscal year 2005-2009, Congress did not appropriate any money until FY 2008, at which time it appropriated $147.4 million. 
   The Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program expires at the end of FY 2009. H.R. 5057, the ``Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act,'' which has strong bipartisan support, would renew the law and authorize $151 million for each fiscal year 2009-2014. H.R. 5057 specifies that not less than 40 percent of the total amount awarded in grants must be used for DNA analyses of samples from crime scenes, rape kits and other sexual assault evidence, and in cases that do not have an identified suspect. 
   AMENDMENT 
   While I support this legislation, I successfully offered an amendment at subcommittee markup. My amendment would require the Attorney General to evaluate the integrity and security of DNA collection and storage practices and procedures at a sample of crime laboratories throughout the country to determine the extent to which DNA samples are tampered with or are otherwise contaminated in such laboratories. The sample should be a representative sample and should include at least one lab from each State. My amendment would require the Attorney General to conduct this evaluation annually and the Attorney General should be required to submit the evaluation to Congress. This amendment is necessary. 
   In Harris County, Texas, DNA evidence was tainted and wrongfully used to convict persons based upon faulty evidence. An investigation into the crime lab in Houston revealed that bad management, under-trained staff, false documentation, and inaccurate work cast doubt on thousands of DNA based convictions. Investigators raised serious questions about the reliability of evidence in hundreds of cases they investigated and asked for further independent scrutiny and new testing to determine the extent to which individuals were wrongly convicted with faulty evidence. 
   My amendment ensures that Congress will exercise some oversight of the program. It will ensure the integrity and security of the DNA collection and storage and procedures. It is my hope that my amendment will minimize wrongful convictions and will make the DNA storage and collection process more reliable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5057, the ``Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008'' (reauthorizing Title II of P.L. 108-405). This Act authorizes funding to eliminate the large backlogs of DNA crime scene samples awaiting testing in State forensic labs. I am in support of this bill. 
   In recent years, law enforcement agencies have realized the critical value that DNA evidence has in quickly solving cases. Often, a DNA sample result can scientifically link a perpetrator to a crime or prove a defendant's innocence with virtual certainty. Many of the Nation's Federal and State criminal forensics laboratories currently are overwhelmed with innumerable samples awaiting DNA analysis. 
   Named for Debbie Smith, who was kidnapped in her Virginia home and raped in nearby woods by a stranger, the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program authorized grant money to states to collect samples from crime scenes and convicted persons, conduct DNA analyses, and enter these results into a comprehensive national database. Debbie Smith's attacker remained unidentified for over six years, until a DNA sample collected from a convicted person serving time in a Virginia State prison revealed his involvement in her rape. Although eventually identified, the six years between crime and identification allowed Ms. Smith's attacker to engage in more criminal activity. 
   Re-authorization of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program will help law enforcement throughout the Nation. It will facilitate the development of a comprehensive national data base against which samples from current crime scenes can be compared. It will allow laboratories to reduce the currently unacceptable delays in processing DNA samples. Finally, it will provide law enforcement and prosecutors strong tools to quickly identify and prosecute criminals, minimizing the costs of investigation and prosecution, the possibility of prosecuting the wrong person and the possibility of future heinous crimes. 
   Recognizing that the backlog of biological evidence that had to be entered in State databases was preventing law enforcement officials from solving many of the Nation's most heinous crimes, like the tragedy that befell Debbie Smith, Congress passed the DNA ``Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000'' (P.L. 106-546). The bill authorized the Attorney General to make grants to eligible States to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and crime scenes for inclusion in the federal DNA database, Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), and to increase the capacity of State crime laboratories. The Act required the Bureau of Prisons and the military to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and forward these samples for analysis, and required the FBI to expand its CODIS database to include the analyses of these DNA samples. 
   The Act also amended the criminal code to require all defendants on probation or supervised release to cooperate with the collection of a DNA sample. The Act expressed the sense of Congress that State grants should be conditioned upon the State's agreement to ensure post-conviction DNA testing in appropriate cases; and that Congress should work with the States to improve the quality of legal representation in capital cases. Finally, the Act authorized an unspecified amount of appropriations to the Attorney General to carry out the Act. 
   In 2004, DNA backlog elimination was incorporated into the Justice for All Act of 2004'', P.L. 108-405 and was renamed the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program, which became Title II of P.L. 108-405. While the Act authorized $151 million for each fiscal year 2005-2009, Congress did not appropriate any money until FY 2008, at which time it appropriated $147.4 million. 
   The Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program expires at the end of FY 2009. H.R. 5057, the ``Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act,'' which has strong bipartisan support, would renew the law and authorize $151 million for each fiscal year 2009-2014. H.R. 5057 specifies that not less than 40 percent of the total amount awarded in grants must be used for DNA analyses of samples from crime scenes, rape kits and other sexual assault evidence, and in cases that do not have an identified suspect. 
   AMENDMENT 
   While I support this legislation, I successfully offered an amendment at subcommittee markup. My amendment would require the Attorney General to evaluate the integrity and security of DNA collection and storage practices and procedures at a sample of crime laboratories throughout the country to determine the extent to which DNA samples are tampered with or are otherwise contaminated in such laboratories. The sample should be a representative sample and should include at least one lab from each State. My amendment would require the Attorney General to conduct this evaluation annually and the Attorney General should be required to submit the evaluation to Congress. This amendment is necessary. 
   A district attorney in Harris County, Texas used evidence to wrongfully convict persons based upon faulty evidence. An investigation into the Houston Police Department's crime lab revealed that bad management, under-trained staff, false documentation, and inaccurate work cast doubt on thousands of DNA-based convictions. Investigators raised serious questions about the reliability of evidence in hundreds of cases they investigated and asked for further independent scrutiny and new testing to determine the extent to which individuals were wrongly convicted with faulty evidence. 
   My amendment ensures that Congress will exercise some oversight of the program. It will ensure the integrity and security of the DNA collection and storage and procedures. It is my hope that my amendment will minimize wrongful convictions and will make the DNA storage and collection process more reliable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (A CHILD IS MISSING ALERT AND RECOVERY CENTER ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, for your leadership in bringing this very important bill to the floor. I support this bill and urge my colleagues to do the same. This bill is good and it is necessary. 
   The bill is sponsored by Mr. Klein and has bi-partisan support. It has 21 cosponsors, including the following Judiciary members: Chairman Conyers, Chairman Scott, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Wexler, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Johnson, Ms. Sutton, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   A child goes missing every 40 seconds. The successful recovery of missing children often requires a quick response. In 1997, Sherry Friedlander, the founder of A Child is Missing (ACIM), saw the need for a rapid-response program to persons who go missing, especially in situations that do not involve abductions. In response to this need, she established ACIM, a national non-profit organization that offers free assistance to law enforcement 365 days of the year, 24 hours per day. The program is not limited to children, but extends to elderly persons (suffering from senility or Alzheimer's), mentally challenged or disabled individuals and college students. 
   When law enforcement receives a call regarding a missing person, the first-responder can immediately call ACIM for help. The officer provides critical information to ACIM, such as the person's age and description and the last time/place seen. ACIM uses that information to record a message that, within minutes, is sent via phone to 1000s of locations within a radius of the last sighting of the person. Through their computer mapping system, ACIM also can identify ``hot spots,'' such as water or wooded areas. 
   ACIM complements the Amber Alert program by providing different services. While Amber Alert focuses on children who are abducted, ACIM covers all ``persons'' who go missing, including situations where criminal intent may not be at issue. Amber Alert uses television and highway signs to broadcast information about the abducted child and the related vehicle, while ACIM uses a rapid response telephone alert system and covers cases where there is no vehicle involved. The ACIM notification system often can respond more quickly than the Amber Alert program. 
   ACIM would use the requested money to operate and expand the existing ACIM office in Florida, to develop Regional Centers for on-site training and communication with local law enforcement, to maintain and expand their computer and phone technologies, and to assist the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the AMBER Alert Coordinator, and appropriate law enforcement agencies with training. 
   H.R. 5464 authorizes $5 million annual grants for 2009 through 2014 to A Child is Missing Alert and Recovery Center (ACIM) to assist law enforcement in the rapid recovery of missing children and other individuals. 
   I look forward to hearing from our witnesses and look forward to their testimony. I hope that we can ensure the health and safety of the young and the elderly--two vulnerable populations--whose rights I have long championed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THURGOOD MARSHALL ON THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS BIRTH -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this legislation that honors an individual of unprecedented stature and achievement. This leader was a fighter who stood boldly on the front lines of democracy to fight for liberty and equality for all. This legal giant is none other than the late Thurgood Marshall. 
   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said that we all can be great because we all can serve. It is my responsibility to pay tribute to the late great Thurgood Marshall who served our Nation by transforming it. 
   The late Thurgood Marshall put in place mechanisms to elevate the United States to its greatest potential. As a result, all Americans presently can reap the benefits of Thurgood  Marshall's arduous travail. One of his greatest victories was his work in the landmark Supreme Court case of Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. In Brown, the Supreme Court ruled that ``separate but equal'' public education was unconstitutional because it could never be truly equal. 
   Marshall's arguments before the Supreme Court were myriad and historic. In total, Marshall won an unprecedented 29 out of the 32 cases he argued before the Supreme Court. 
   In 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Marshall to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On June 13, 1967, President Johnson appointed Marshall to the Supreme Court following the retirement of Justice Tom C. Clark. In appointing Marshall, President Johnson declared this was ``the right thing to do, the right time to do it, the right man and the right place.'' He was the 96th person to hold the position, and the first African-American. 
   Today I stand before you, as many of my colleagues do, as a proud product of Thurgood Marshall's vision for equal access to education. Because of Thurgood Marshall's profound vision, one's access to education is no longer dependent upon the color of their skin or their income, but upon the demonstration of their academic promise, and scholarly merit and capability. Notwithstanding Marshall's legendary achievements in civil rights, America has much work to do. In thinking of our progress, I am reminded of the Bible in Jeremiah 8:20, ``The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.'' America has reaped the harvest of Marshall's life, Marshall's life is now past, and America has much work to do in civil rights. American people are not yet saved. The problem of this century, as it has been in past centuries, is still the problem of the color line. America has made great strides in this regard. Nonetheless, America still has work to do. 
   Although there are still some barriers to overcome, Thurgood Marshall removed the road block that stymied America from being as good as its promise. Thurgood Marshall also impacted the international community. Mr. Marshall was asked by the United Nations and the United Kingdom to help draft the constitutions of the emerging African nations of Ghana and what is now Tanzania. It was felt that the person who so successfully fought for the rights of America's oppressed minority would be the perfect person to ensure the rights of all African citizens, both Black and White, in these two former European colonies. 
   Being the right man or woman at the right time is no easy task. There is no room for passiveness or reluctance to action. Following in the tradition of the late Thurgood Marshall, we, the representatives of the United States citizenry, are the right people at the right time. Although our current battles differ slightly from those of Thurgood Marshall, we are faced with our own battles which include, the economy, creating affordable housing, immigration, Iraq, the pursuit of energy independence, and making sure that our veterans are properly taken care of. 
   The precedent that the late Thurgood Marshall set, in fighting to make the U.S. as great as its promise, should be our motivation to pass good legislation to protect the rights of American people as we honor and recognize his dedication and achievements on this 100th anniversary of his birth. 
   Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in recognizing a true hero, Thurgood Marshall who died on January 24, 1993, at the age of 84. Let us honor his dedication and achievements as we recognize his contributions to the struggle for equal rights and justice in the United States.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THURGOOD MARSHALL ON THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS BIRTH -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, as I indicated earlier in the afternoon, H. Con. Res. 381 was being debated and that is the honoring and recognizing the dedication and achievements of Thurgood Marshall on the 100th anniversary of his birth. Let me thank Congressman Payne for his legislative initiative, the House Judiciary Committee Chairman JOHN CONYERS and Ranking Member Mr. LAMAR SMITH. 
   I stand here today as a living example of the legacy and the leadership of Justice Thurgood Marshall. Who would have thought as he broke the color line in Brown versus Topeka Board of Education that he would have opened the doors of opportunity for those from the East to the West and from the North to the South? 
   Most people don't know that America during the 1950s and earlier than that continued to be a segregated America. It did not matter where you lived. Thurgood Marshall had the courage to take this case to the United States Supreme Court. And the Warren court had the courage and rightness of mind to be able to establish an equal education for all. 
   I applaud Thurgood Marshall who was appointed to the Court of Appeals by President John F. Kennedy and ultimately the first African American to sit on the United States Supreme Court. He was one who understood justice. He was one who recognized the equality of all people. He was one who recognized that America is better when it reflects and appreciates its diversity. 
   Thank you, Justice Marshall, for the freedom and the opportunity you have given even to me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 231 to reauthorize the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, Byrne-JAG, Program at fiscal year 2006 levels through 2012. The Byrne-JAG monies are supposed to be used to make America a safer place. I support the reauthorization, and I would urge my colleagues to do likewise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (A TRIBUTE TO DR. MICHAEL E. <em>DeBAKEY</em> -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Dr. Michael E. DeBakey on the eve of his funeral in Houston tomorrow. 
   We lost Dr. DeBakey just a few days ago. Many of us have come to know him as a major force in medical science for almost 100 years. He died at 99 years old, still, however, before his illness, going to his office, going to the medical center, and being a counsel  and a resource for any number of doctors, thousands upon thousands of doctors of which he had the privilege of training. 
   Dr. DeBakey was a great researcher, a great scientist, a great physician, a great surgeon. He was a great teacher, and he founded the MASH unit that has helped us save so many lives. He loved veterans. He served in World War II. He was the father of the Veterans Administration Veterans Affairs Department. He created the concept of medicine for the veterans of this Nation. 
   We are so grateful that, among other things that he was named after, the Veterans Hospital in Houston, which I carried the legislation, his name was given to the Michael E. DeBakey High School that has helped train so many young people who have a desire for a medical profession. 
   Tomorrow he will be paid tribute to by so many in Houston. Mr. Speaker, today we honor him as we have been given a great gift--his life, his service, his ability to cure, his love of saving lives. May he rest in peace, Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, an icon, a giant, an American hero, and we will never forget him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank my colleague Mr. Green for his outstanding leadership on the Financial Services Committee in the management of this bill. 
   Let me also thank his co-manager on the floor as well, and I'd like to thank the chairman of the Financial Services Committee and his ranking member. Chairman Frank has been a champion of this legislation. His staff and the Financial Services Committee has been a supporter as we have made our way from the House, through the committee process, through the Senate, back to the House, and now back to the Senate. 
   I think it's important to note that the House has the ability to legislate on revenue matters, and it is important as we pass this legislation for it to pass quickly in the Senate in order for this very worthy acknowledgment of the NASA 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act. 
   I'm delighted to be the original cosponsor and author of this legislation, joined with my colleague Congressman John Culberson. I want to congratulate him and congratulate his staff. He has worked over a number of sessions, and we have collaborated on an institution that we've seen grow and thrive and improve over the years. 
   This particular legislation is a commemoration of the 50 years of NASA. The year 2008 will mark the 50th anniversary of the creation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, NASA. This important legislation celebrates NASA's 50th birthday with a commemorative coin. The legislation also honors extraordinary partnerships between NASA and its 10 space and research centers. 
   As a long-standing member of the Science Committee, I had the opportunity to visit most of NASA's space and research centers, and I hope as we stand on the floor today, each and every one of them, wherever they are located, will view this as a special tribute to them.     
   This reflects the distinguished history of NASA. The United States of America won the race to land a man on the moon and subsequently had the opportunity to have women in space. And thanks to the courage, dedication and brilliance of NASA, America has continued to lead the world in the exploration of the solar system and the universe. 
   On October 1, 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began operation. At the time, it consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million. Over the next 50 years, NASA had been involved in many defining events which helped to shape human history. We consider the astronauts our heroes. And I've always enjoyed saying that at my annual Christmas party with 3,000 youngsters, the astronauts are more popular than Santa Claus. 
   Many of us remember how inspired we were when on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed, ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to Earth.'' We all know the phenomenon of ``The Right Stuff,'' the courageous men who first went into space. ``No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish'' as President Kennedy said as he referred to landing a person on the moon. 
   Always at the forefront of technological innovation, NASA has been home to countless ``firsts'' in the field of space exploration, from the 1958 launch of Pioneer 3, the first U.S. satellite to ascend to an altitude of 63,000 miles, to the January 1998 signing of the International Space Station agreement between 15 countries, establishing the framework for cooperation among partners on the design, development, operation and utilization of the Space Station. 
   Over the past 50 years, NASA's accomplishments have included many. I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, to note that many who have gone to the Space Station--and I'm putting in my reservation--have indicated that it is massive, it is enormous, it is powerful, it is impressive, it is as large as a football field. That is the genius of America. And this is the genius that we celebrate by this commemorative coin. 
   I note, very briefly, on February 20, 1962, John Glenn became the first American to circle the Earth. 
   Briefly, on April 6, 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, the first commercial satellite.  
   On November 13, 1961, the United States launched Mariner 9, the first mission to orbit another planet, that was Mars. 
   On April 12, 1981, NASA launched the Space Shuttle Columbia. 
   On January 18-24, 1983, NASA launched Space Shuttle Challenger!.  
   On July 22, 1999, Space Shuttle Columbia's flight was led by Air Force Colonel Eileen Collins, the first woman to command a shuttle mission. 
   On July 20, 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin made the first lunar landing mission while Michael Collins orbited overhead in the Apollo command module. 
   On April 24, 1990, the Hubble Space Telescope was launched into space. 
   So many firsts, but yet, of course, there were tragedies. And today, as we commemorate this coin or pass this legislation, we also acknowledge the fallen heroes in Columbia and Challenger, and the others who have found their dream of going into space shortened by this tragic incident. 
   It is not safe, it is not easy, it is risky, but there are men and women, Americans, who are willing to go into space to be able to push the envelope to ensure that humanity has the kind of health resources or health research in HIV/AIDS and stroke and heart attacks to be able to move this Nation and humanity around the world to its highest level. 
   I'm very pleased that we, in the Houston area, celebrate the Johnson Space Center, representing so many space centers around the world. I am even more pleased to have the opportunity, on more than one occasion, to welcome home the astronauts as they've landed at the Johnson Space Center. What a remarkable experience to hear their stories, to see their eyes light up as they express what it's like to be in space, to take a space walk. As our most recent mission evidenced, how important it is that space has reflected the diversity of America--Asians, Hispanics, African Americans, Caucasians, men, women, people from all over this Nation, and yes, our international partners from Japan, from Russia, from many places around the world. 
   And what will this coin do? And we encourage, if I might, for everyone to be excited about this coin. I'm hoping that you will commemorate the passage of this legislation by securing to you the value of the NASA coins. You can say this on the floor of the House, we're not marketing, but we think it will be an outstanding and special historical artifact that you will really want to have. But it also serves to further the dream, the dream of space, the dream in the hearts and minds of young people. 
   In this very important legislation the proceeds of the sale will benefit the life and legacy of Dr. Ronald E. McNair, a friend, a neighbor, a member of the Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church; the late Dr. Ronald E. McNair whose Educational Science Literacy Foundation is strengthening the connection of minority youngsters to math and science. It will also help the Challenger Center for Space Science Education, for the purposes of creating positive learning experiences using space science as a theme that raise student expectations of success. 
   All of this will be, as well, celebrated by adding dollars to the NASA Families Assistance Fund, and that is, of course, the fund that provides for those who have lost their loved ones in the course of this historic opportunity. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me acknowledge Jonathan Obee of the Financial Services Committee on this legislation. I also wish to pay tribute to Yohannes Tsehai of my staff, as I've indicated, again, to the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Frank, and of the subcommittees, and the ranking member of the full committee. I also want to acknowledge, as I indicated before, the manager of the bill from Houston and the manager from the minority who is managing this bill. 
   In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me say this, that coins may represent some symbolism, but in the spirit of what NASA has meant to America, it is more than that. It is simply to say thank you; thank you to the brave men and women who are willing, yes, to sacrifice their life so that humanity can be lifted to a higher level. 
   Learning what happens in space can improve the quality of lives of all Americans. And I hope this coin will remind young people today of the importance of math and science and pushing their own envelopes. I want to see more astronauts and more astronauts, more exploration, if you will, and the understanding of science to improve the quality of life of all of America and around the world. 
   With that, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation and I thank Mr. Green for his time.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6455, the NASA 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act. I was pleased to introduce this bill and I thank my colleague, Mr. Culberson, who joined me in introducing this legislation, and Chairman Frank of the Financial Services Committee, for his excellent leadership in shepherding this historic legislation to passage on the House floor. 
   The year 2008 will mark the 50th anniversary of the creation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). This important legislation celebrates NASA's 50th birthday with a commemorative coin. The legislation also honors the extraordinary partnerships between NASA and its 10 space and research centers. 
   Mr. Speaker, NASA has a distinguished history. The United States of America won the race to land a man on the moon and, thanks to the courage, dedication, and brilliance of NASA, America has continued to lead the world in the exploration of the solar system and the universe. 
   On October 1, 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration began operation. At the time it consisted of only about 8,000 employees and an annual budget of $100 million. Over the next 50 years, NASA has been involved in many defining events occurred which have shaped the course of human history and demonstrated to the world the character of the people of the United States. 
   Many of us remember how inspired we were when on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed: ``I believe this Nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to earth. No single space project in this period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive to accomplish.'' 
   Always at the forefront of technological innovation, NASA has been home to countless ``firsts'' in the field of space exploration, from the 1958 launch of Pioneer 3, the first U.S. satellite to ascend to an altitude of 63,580 miles, to the January 1998 signing of the International Space Station agreement between 15 countries, establishing the framework for cooperation among partners on the design, development, operation, and utilization of the Space Station. Over the past 50 years, NASA's accomplishments have included: 
   On 20 Feb. 1962, John Glenn became the first American to circle the Earth, making three orbits in his Friendship 7 Mercury spacecraft. 
   On 6 Apr. 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, the first commercial satellite (communications), into geostationary orbit. 
   On 13 Nov. 1971, the United States launched Mariner 9, the first mission to orbit another planet (Mars). 
   On 12 Apr. 1981, NASA launched the Space Shuttle Columbia on the first flight of the Space Transportation System (STS-1). 
   On 18-24 Jun. 1983, NASA launched Space Shuttle Challenger (STS-7) carrying three mission specialists, including Sally K. Ride, the first woman astronaut. In another historic mission, two months later, NASA launched STS-8 carrying the first black American astronaut, Guion S. Bluford. 
   On 22 Jul. 1999, the Space Shuttle Columbia's 26th flight was led by Air Force Col. Eileen Collins, the first woman to command a Shuttle mission. 
   On July 20, 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin made the first lunar landing mission while Michael Collins orbited overhead in the Apollo command module. Armstrong set foot on the surface, telling the millions of listeners that it was ``one small step for man--one giant leap for mankind.'' Aldrin soon followed him out and planted an American flag but omitted claiming the land for the U.S. as had routinely been done during European exploration of the Americas. The two Moon-walkers left behind an American flag and a plaque bearing the inscription: ``Here Men from Planet Earth First Set Foot upon the Moon. Jul. 1969 A.D. We came in Peace for All Mankind.'' 
   On April 24, 1990, the Hubble Space Telescope was launched into space aboard the STS-31 mission of the Space Shuttle Discovery. The Hubble has revolutionized astronomy while expanding our knowledge of the universe and inspiring millions of scientists, students, and members of the public with its unprecedented deep and clear images of space.''  
   Mr. Speaker, in addition to these historic events, NASA has greatly contributed to our understanding of our universe. In 1968, Apollo 8 took off atop a Saturn V booster from the Kennedy Space Center for a historic mission to orbit the Moon. As Apollo 8 traveled outward, the crew focused a portable television camera on Earth and for the first time humanity saw its home from afar, a tiny, lovely, and fragile ``blue marble'' hanging in the blackness of space. 
   This transmission and viewing of Earth from a distance was an enormously significant accomplishment and united the Nation at a time when American society was in crisis over Vietnam, race relations, urban problems, and a host of other difficulties. 
   The success of the United States space exploration program in the 20th Century bodes well for its continued leadership in the 21st Century. This success is largely attributable to the remarkable and indispensable partnership between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and its 10 space and research centers. One of these important research centers is located in my home city of Houston. The Johnson Space Center, which manages the development, testing, production, and delivery of all United States human spacecraft and all human spacecraft-related functions, is one of the crown jewels of NASA and a lodestar in the Houston area. The other nine research and space centers are: 
   1. The Ames Research Center in California's Silicon Valley provides products, technologies, and services that enable NASA missions and expand human knowledge in areas as diverse as small spacecraft and supercomputers, science missions and payloads, thermal protection systems and information technology. 
   2. The Dryden Flight Research Center, the leading center for innovative flight research. 
   3. The Glenn Research Center, which develops power, propulsion, and communication technologies for space flight systems and aeronautics research. 
   4. The Goddard Space Flight Center, which specializes in research to expand knowledge on the Earth and its environment, the solar system, and the universe through observations from space. 
   5. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the leading center for robotic exploration of the Solar System. 
   6. The Kennedy Space Center, the gateway to the Universe and world leader in preparing and launching missions around the Earth and beyond. 
   7. The Langley Research Center, which continues to forge new frontiers in aviation and space research for aerospace, atmospheric sciences, and technology commercialization to improve the way the world lives. 
   8. The Marshall Space Flight Center, a world leader in developing space transportation and propulsion systems, engineers the future to accelerate exploration and scientific discovery. 
   9. The Stennis Space Center, which is responsible for rocket propulsion testing and for partnering with industry to develop and implement remote sensing technology. 
   NASA's stunning achievements over the last 50 years have been won for all mankind at great cost and sacrifice. In the quest to explore the universe, many NASA employees have lost their lives, including the crews of Apollo 6, the Space Shuttle Challenger, and the Space Shuttle Columbia. 
   The surcharge proceeds from the sale of a coin commemorating the contributions of NASA will generate valuable funding for the NASA Families Assistance Fund for the purposes of need-based financial assistance to the families of NASA personnel who die as a result of injuries suffered in the performance of their official duties. 
   And equally important, proceeds from the sale of commemorative coins will also benefit the Dr. Ronald E. McNair Educational (D.R.E.M.E.) Science Literacy Foundation, which is dedicated to improving and strengthening the process of teaching and learning science, math, and technology at all educational levels, elementary through college through the promotion of innovative educational programs. 
   This legislation also benefits the Challenger Center for Space Science Education, for the purposes of creating positive learning experiences using space science as a theme that raise student expectations of success, fostering a long-term interest in mathematics, science, and technology, and motivating students to pursue careers in these fields. The remainders of the proceeds, after distribution to the NASA Families Assistance Fund, the DREME Foundation, and the Challenger Center for Space Science Education, are slated to go to the Smithsonian Institution for the preservation, maintenance, and display of space artifacts at the National Air and Space Museum (including the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center). 
   Mr. Speaker, in the centuries to come, when space travel will be commonplace and America will have successfully led the way for humanity to utilize the resources of other planets, these first 50 years of NASA's existence will be remembered as the most significant era of human space exploration. It is, therefore, important that we commemorate the great achievements of NASA's first 50 years. 
   In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me also thank Jonathan Obee of the Financial Services Committee on this legislation. I also wish to pay special tribute to Yohannes Tsehai of my staff. Without their valuable contributions this significant legislative achievement would not have been possible. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this historic legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Texas as well. 
   I'm very pleased to add to the debate on the floor of the House and how far-reaching NASA has come as it relates to all academic institutions. I'm very proud of the partnership that NASA has had with Texas Southern University, one historically black college located in the 18th Congressional District, as well as Oakwood College located in Huntsville, Alabama. But there are many, many colleges that NASA has collaborated with. It's been a particularly important partnership with historically black colleges and Hispanic-serving colleges. As it relates to Texas Southern University, they've worked on aeronautics. They have, in fact, engaged in fellowships with young people to be able to expose them to the importance of the work that NASA has done. 
   I think even more so, it is important for the American people to know that the payload that the astronauts have taken to the Space Station and actually worked on includes the work of elementary, middle school and high school students. What better way for there to be an excitement about space and what we enjoy but doing it in that way. 
   I'm delighted that my colleagues have joined in discussing the broadness of our energy policy. I think in the passing of Dr. DeBakey we should make note of the great medical research that goes on with NASA. And as I've indicated with HIV/AIDS, with heart attacks or heart disease or stroke, it is not known to most Americans how much medical research is done on the Space Station and how many different countries are there and the medical doctors that go into space as well. 
   I know that we will work for a unified energy policy that involves, if you will, all of the elements, including conservation and wind and solar--Texas being the largest State with wind power. And I look forward to us having a fossil fuel, wind, solar, conservation, and we will do that as we move together. 
   NASA is so much a part of this extended research on climate change. And these commemorative coins will celebrate the diversity of NASA, how valuable it is for us. I hope my colleagues will enthusiastically support this particular legislation that will cause us to make sure that we are reminded of the great work of this great organization, serving all of the people of the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MEDICARE IMPROVEMENTS FOR PATIENTS AND PROVIDERS ACT OF 2008--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-131) -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of overriding President Bush's veto of H.R. 6331, the ``Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008.'' I would like to thank my colleague from New York, Chairman CHARLES RANGEL and Congressman DINGELL for their leadership in this important issue. 
   This legislation could not come at a more crucial time. Americans are in need of support. Rising gas prices, food costs at an all time high, and a rocky housing market has pushed this great Nation toward an economic downturn. Families are clinging to basic necessities and quality healthcare is own of those essential needs. 
   I am pleased to see that there is no language that inhibits physician ownership of general acute care hospitals. I have worked tirelessly with members of leadership and with the Texas delegation to support general acute-care hospitals and their future development. Physicians who have decided to build in areas where often no other hospital will--should not be penalized for their commitment to work on the clinical and business side of health care. 
   General acute-care hospitals still need to be able to: 
   Maintain a minimum number of physicians available at all times to provide service; 
   Provide a significant amount of charity care; 
   Treat at least one-sixth of its outpatient visits for emergency medical conditions on an urgent basis without requiring a previously scheduled appointment; 
   Maintain at least 10 full-time interns or residents-in-training in a teaching program; 
   Advertise or present themselves to the public as a place which provides emergency care; 
   Serve as a disproportionate share provider, serving a low-income community with a disproportionate share of low-income patients; and 
   Have at least 90 hospital beds available to patients. 
   This issue is of the utmost importance to me because I, like others in the Democratic Caucus, have hospitals and hospital systems such as University Hospital Systems of Houston in my district that would have been greatly affected by this provision. 
   For example, 2 years ago St. Joseph Medical Center, downtown Houston's first and only teaching hospital, was on the verge of closing its doors. However, a hospital corporation in partnership with physicians purchased it, and as a result of proper 
   and responsible management, has made it the premier hospital in the region, with a qualified emergency room responsive to a heavily populated downtown Houston. St. Joseph Medical Center is also in the process of reopening Houston Heights Hospital, the fourth oldest acute care hospital in Houston. This hospital will be serving a large Medicare/Medicaid population. 
   I am committed to this issue and to the issue of health care for all Americans. Provisions that could end the expansion of truly compassionate hospital care in places like Texas, Maryland, New York, and California have no place in health care legislation. 
   What I do support is legislation that seeks to aid our elderly, our disabled, our veterans, our children and our indigent populations. I stand here today to show my support not only for the physicians and medical care providers of Houston, Texas, but for all of our health care providers across this country. We need them to continue to be able to care for our underserved and elderly--this bill allows them to do just that. 
   This bill provides a delay of 18 months for the competitive bidding program for durable medical equipment (DMEPOS). It also prevents the 10.6 percent pay cut to physicians that is scheduled to take place on July 1, and provides a 1.1 percent update starting January 1, 2009. 
   This bill also includes important beneficiary improvements such as Medicare mental health parity, improved preventive coverage, and enhanced assistance for low-income beneficiaries. 
   It contains provisions that will protect the fragile rural health care safety net. In my home state of Texas, we have not only great urban areas such as Houston, Dallas and  Austin, we have over 300 rural areas in Texas with cities such as Rollingwood and Hamilton. 
   Our rural health care providers are scheduled to receive steep cuts in Medicare reimbursement rates on July 1 unless we take action now. Such cuts are catastrophic in rural America, where a disproportionate number of elderly Americans live. These seniors are, per capita, older, poorer and sicker (with greater chronic illnesses) than their urban counterparts. Additionally, recruitment and retention of providers to much of rural America is often daunting. Provider shortages are rampant throughout many rural and most frontier regions. 
   Additionally, H.R. 6331 also includes several other critical provisions for rural providers which, cumulatively, create a rural package that will help protect both the rural health safety net and the health of tens of millions of seniors who call rural America home. 
   H.R. 6331 focuses on strengthening primary care and takes significant strides in protecting rural seniors' access to care by correcting certain long-standing inequities between rural and urban providers. 
   Thank you both for your continued concern for the health of rural Americans. So many enduring inequities in health care must be faced by rural patients and providers daily. H.R. 6331 offers critical assistance and will go far to improving the health of millions of rural Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Quality measures must continue to be adequately funded in order to promote quality, cost-effective health care for consumers and employers. The uncertainty of Medicare payments makes it increasingly difficult for surgeons and their practices to plan for the expenses that they will incur as they serve their patients. 
   The provisions included in H.R. 6331 would enable surgeons and surgical practices to plan for the rising costs that they will continue to face over the next year and a half. 
   By addressing payment levels through 2009, Chairman RANGEL has given us more time to study the payment issues surrounding Medicare and allow us to look at the systemic reforms needed to preserve access to quality surgical care and other physician services. 
   As a longtime advocate for universal health care, I believe we must continue to support our essential medical providers so that they can focus on patient care. We need more physicians as we seek to expand health care for all Americans. Yet, how can we expect to grow that workforce when we continue to cut their reimbursement levels? We must support our physicians so that they may support and care for their patients. We have to continue to look at how we can save Medicare and expand it to care for those who need it most. Finally, with the recent passing of Dr. Michael E. Debakey, I hope his life and legacy will inspire the Congress to continue to build up the system of the health in America for all Americans. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in overriding the President's veto of this very important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SOWING THE SEEDS THROUGH SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished chairman of the Science Committee, as well as the ranking member. We have had a long and I like to think of it as a productive relationship, and it is an honor to come and acknowledge that we are finally listening to the voices of the 21st century. 
   I want to hold up this document that claims the 110th Congress is a Congress that will move the innovation agenda. As a former member of the Science Committee I remember, as the century turned in 2000, listening to CEOs who indicated the crisis in both teaching, understanding and creative in math, science and technology. 
   Let me rise and belatedly say I have certainly supported the last legislative initiative dealing with 10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds that we just passed, and I am delighted to be able to support the Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act of 2007 and to say this: Science is in fact the work of the 21st century, but we are falling behind.  
   We don't need to hear the statistics again of how many engineers China graduates, for example, compared to the United States. This workforce cannot be prepared for the 21st century without actual investment by this country, and understanding that without researchers and scientists and engineers, we do not create work. 
   Clearly, even though these might be considered passe and simple, but the light bulb, the typewriter, the car, all innovative aspects of our work, the airplane, created eons and years and decades of work. 
   This legislation in particular provides an opportunity for research, and the amendment provides an opportunity for research for undergraduate scholars. 
   At Texas Southern University, we have a transportation study program. It has a pharmacy school, all small aspects of science. It has a solar energy project that I was proud to take Members of Congress to in 2001. 
   There are budding opportunities all over America, but what must we do to ensure that it works? We have to invest and provide the resources. We have to encourage not only students, but teachers, and then researchers that their work is valued. NASA and our move to the moon all concentrate on having those who will be researchers, technologists, readers of software, and yes, we hope, astronauts. 
   I applaud this legislation for what it does for engineers and scientists and physicians who are pioneers of the work of the 20th century and now can be pioneers of the work of the 21st century. 
   I believe that we have a step further to go. We need geologists. As we look at global warming, we must find ways to be efficient in the securing of energy, balancing what we call the resources of the ground as well as nuclear as well as solar. 
   I think this is an outstanding bill, and I ask my colleagues to support it. I thank the distinguished chairman.  
   I rise in strong support of H.R. 363, the ``Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act,'' of which I am proud to be a cosponsor. This bill is the second component of the new Democratic majority's Innovation Agenda, which is designed to make our nation more able to compete successfully in the global economy. 
   Mr. Chairman, it is essential that we invest in a workforce ready for global competition by creating a new generation of innovators and make a sustained commitment to federal research and development. We need to spur and expand affordable access to broadband, achieve energy independence, and provide small business with tools to encourage entrepreneurial innovation. H.R. 363 a critical first step. 
   Charles Drew, Benjamin Banneker, Clarence Elder, and David Crosthwait, Jr. are only a few of the names associated with great American scientific history. These engineers, scientist, and physicians were pioneers in their respective fields, and have touched all our lives in ways that we probably never consider. Whether it is enjoying the comfortable atmosphere of Radio City Music hall, navigating the streets of Washington, DC, or having a loved one receive a blood transfusion these men have all made significant contributions to America and the world. Yet, the beautiful thing about science is its' evolutionary nature. Innovation never sleeps, and great minds are always at work. 
   Therefore to continue the legacy of these great men, and to ensure that America is at the forefront of new technological and scientific discoveries, I rise in support of H.R. 363. Representing Houston, I realize the importance of institutions like NASA and the sense of national pride that NASA can produce when they are leading the global effort in advancing science and technology. 
   Mr. Chairman, according to the National Academies, the most important thing we can do for our future economic health is to increase the nation's expertise in science, technology, math, and engineering. H.R. 363 represents a critical down-payment toward achieving this goal. Therefore, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SOWING THE SEEDS THROUGH SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank you. I know this is not in the bill, but I just wanted to mention a school district I have been working with where I tried to draw in private interests in helping with math and science labs. 
   I know that as you look at the Innovation Agenda, I want to make sure we do not frighten away the private financiers as well. This happens to be a large energy company, and I am going to openly say to them, I hope you have not abandoned the commitment to the North Forest Independent School District where we were committed to science labs and math labs and math scholar teachers. So it is tracking the same innovativeness of this particular bill, and I think we can work together as a partner. 
   I want to support the gentleman's amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (10,000 TEACHERS, 10 MILLION MINDS SCIENCE AND MATH SCHOLARSHIP ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Ms. Chairman, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 362, the ``10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds Science and Math Scholarship Act,'' of which I am proud to be a co-sponsor. This bill is the first component of the new Democratic majority's Innovation Agenda, which is designed to make our nation more able to compete successfully in the global economy. 
   Mr. Chairman, it is essential that we invest in a workforce ready for global competition by creating a new generation of innovators and make a sustained commitment to federal research and development. We need to spur and expand affordable access to broadband, achieve energy independence, and provide small business with tools to encourage entrepreneurial innovation 
   H.R. 362 is a critical first step. It will place highly qualified teachers in math, science, and technology K-12 classrooms, based on the recommendations of the National Academies. It will invest in 10,000 new science and math teachers, totaling some 25,000 over five years, by increasing the number of scholarships for students majoring in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields and who are committed to pursuing teaching. 
   Mr. Chairman, H.R. 362, will also strengthen the skills of math, science and technology of up to 250,000 teachers by improving education and training opportunities for math and science teachers and expanding professional development, summer training institutes, and graduate education assistance. 
   This important, bipartisan legislation seeks to advance science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, or STEM, education by providing for improved recruitment, training, mentoring, and professional development of teachers. 
   The establishment and maintenance of a capable scientific and technological workforce remains an important facet of U.S. efforts to maintain economic competitiveness. Pre-college instruction in mathematics and scientific fields is crucial to the development of U.S. scientific and technological personnel, as well as our overall scientific literacy as a nation. The value of education in scientific and mathematics is not limited to those students pursuing a degree in one of these fields, and even students pursuing nonscientific and nonmathematical fields are likely to require basic knowledge in these subjects. 
   In particular, there is a need to extend access to mathematics and scientific education to a number of specific groups. Even as certain minorities, including African Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans, comprise an increasingly large proportion of the U.S. population, they continue to be underrepresented in science and engineering disciplines. Together, these three groups comprise over 25 percent of the population, but earn only 16.2 percent of the bachelor degrees, 10.7 percent of the masters degrees, and 5.4 percent of the doctorate degrees in these fields. 
   This legislation amends the National Science Foundation (NSF) Authorization Act of 2002 by revising the requirements for the Robert Noyce Scholarship program. This important program provides scholarships, stipends, and teacher training to science, mathematics, and engineering students and professionals, in exchange for a commitment to service as elementary or secondary school teachers following graduation. 
   H.R. 362 also provides for summer institutes and graduate programs through the Mathematics and Science Education Partnership program. It authorizes $195 million from FY 2008 to FY 2012 for the operation of an already existing NSF program to provide summer workshops for teachers. It authorizes additional funds to establish a new grant program aimed at encouraging the development of graduate degree programs for math and science teachers. This bill provides increasing funding for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 for the NSF STEM Talent Expansion program, and authorizes the NSF to create pilot programs to award grants to improve laboratories in secondary schools. 
   Mr. Chairman, according to the National Academies, the most important thing we can do for our future economic health is invest in our science and math teachers. A number of highly publicized studies have shown that the mathematics and science achievement of American students is poor by international standards. In 2005, 39 percent of 12th graders lacked even basic high school math skills. 
   H.R. 362 has been endorsed by a broad range of businesses and universities as well as industry and education groups, including the Business Roundtable, Association of American Universities, Council on Competitiveness, the College Board, Semiconductor Industry Association and the Business Software Alliance. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MR. PRESIDENT, SIGN THE SCHIP BILL -- (House of Representatives - December 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, isn't this the season of giving? My colleagues, the Democratic majority has worked without stopping to provide funding for the health insurance of our children in America. Isn't it a shame that the minority and the administration want to be the scrooge of the season and deny millions of children health care in the Children's Health Insurance Plan; 966,000 children in the State of Texas, innocent children who cannot fend for themselves, now suffering because we have a veto on the SCHIP. 
   Madam Speaker, isn't this a season of giving? I'm grateful that the Democrats prevailed on the AMT, giving middle-class taxpayers a bounty this holiday season, but who will care for the children? 
   Again, Mr. President, sign the SCHIP bill. Don't take away Christmas from millions of children here in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DRUG SENTENCING REFORM AND COCAINE KINGPIN TRAFFICKING ACT OF 2007; AND YOUTH VIOLENCE -- (House of Representatives - December 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening for two important matters. And I believe that when we listen to our colleagues speak about fairness, as my good friend from Texas, Congressman Poe, just did, I happen to agree with him that there are instances where we must respond to the unfairness of the justice system in the instance of these two Border Patrol agents who are incarcerated while the drug dealer goes free. But there are also commonsense approaches that we must make to address the question of the overall unfairness in the system. 
   Today, I introduce H.R. 4545, which is the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007, and it responds to the cry of the U.S. Sentencing Commission and the U.S. Supreme Court, by no means liberal bastions, that have argued and have been convinced that the disparities in sentencing between crack cocaine and cocaine is patently unconstitutional and unfair. And it was the Supreme Court on December 10 that restored the broad authority of Federal District judges to sentence outside the sentencing guidelines and impose shorter and more reasonable prison sentences for persons convicted of offenses involving crack cocaine. 
   Right now, we know it takes $20,000 to incarcerate someone in the prison. But these justices and the U.S. Sentencing Commission said that it is important to end the disparity and not to give more for crack used, unfortunately, by the poorest of Americans, and allow those who use the high-priced cocaine, not really that different, to get off almost scot-free. 
   This bill tracks the Supreme Court decision, but, more importantly, it includes an offender drug treatment incentive grant program, and it places and increases an emphasis on certain abrogating factors such as selling drugs to children. And it has penalties for the real bad guys, and those are the major drug traffickers. 
   We must get a grip on the inequity of the justice system that allows some who can sit in their living room and smoke cocaine to get off easier than those who are on the streets with crack. We want to get rid of all uses of drugs, but we have to be fair in the justice system. 
   I also rise, Mr. Speaker, and I hope my colleagues will join me in cosponsoring H.R. 4545. We introduced it today with 20 sponsors, including a member of the leadership, and we are grateful and hopeful that we will get a hearing on this legislation. But I also join my good friend, Congressman John Larson, to be able to step on the line, to stomp out the violence that our children are participating in. 
   Some few years ago, I was on the select committee against violence headed by my former colleague Martin Frost. Let me just say to you that homicide is the second leading cause of death among 15- to 24-year-olds. Twenty-seven thousand young African Americans were murdered in this country over the last 5 years of the Iraq war; there have been fewer than 1,500 killed in Iraq. The murder of a teenager costs about $1 million in loss and accrued costs. A teenager disabled by gunshot costs about $2 million. Seventy-one percent of police chiefs and sheriffs and prosecutors nationwide agree that there must be programs for preschool children and after-school programs. But, more importantly, parents and teachers and the faith community and Members of Congress must stand against this violence. 
   The killing of Sean Taylor by those under 20 years old. The killing of Deputy Constable in my district, Odom, whose funeral I went to, killed by those who were 11th and 12th graders in one of Houston's high schools. 
   We have to stand and denounce violence, but we must intervene with  proactive preventative programs. And I would call upon this leadership to establish a select committee against youth violence. It is that much of a crisis. The question of the proliferation of guns in the hands of youth, the kind of youth that would go in and commit suicide but kill eight individuals or more in a Nation's shopping mall, or the kind of youth that would leave his Christian home of homeschooling and shoot those innocent persons at a missionary training school in one of the Nation's churches. 
   What is going on in America? What is going on is silence. And, therefore, we are here today joining with Congressman Larson and my colleagues to stand against silence. Let us establish a youth commission, a youth select committee against youth violence in the United States Congress, and let our voices ring out so that we can save our children.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the Drug Sentencing Reform and Cocaine Kingpin Trafficking Act of 2007. I am introducing this important legislation today so that we may finally eliminate the unjust and unequal Federal crack/cocaine sentencing disparity in America. The time has come to finally right the wrongs created with the original drug sentencing legislation in 1986. 
   As a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, I have always been an outspoken advocate for justice and equality in our criminal justice system. For the last 21 years, we have allowed people who have committed similar crimes to serve drastically different sentences for what we now know are discredited and unsubstantiated differences. For the last 21 years, the way we have punished low-level crimes for crack cocaine and powder cocaine have been unjust and unequal. 
   In 1986, Congress linked mandatory minimum penalties to different drug quantities, which were intended to serve as proxies for identifying offenders who were ``serious'' traffickers (managers of retail drug trafficking) and ``major'' traffickers (manufacturers or the kingpins who headed drug organizations). 
   Since 1986, the severity of punishment between those sentenced for crack cocaine offenses and powder cocaine offenses has been extremely disproportionate, a 100 to 1 ratio to be exact. This has resulted in not only an unequal and unjust criminal justice system, but also a prison system which is overflowing and overburdened with individuals who were not in actuality major drug traffickers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NORTH KOREAN HUMAN RIGHTS REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker. I rise today in support of H.R. 5834, the North Korean Human Rights Reauthorization Act of 2008, introduced by my colleague Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. I believe that this legislation makes important improvements to the North Korean Human Rights Act, passed in 2004. 
   Mr. Speaker, between 1994 and 1998, about 2.5 million people died during a period of famine in North Korea. During this period, large numbers of North Koreans began crossing the border to China in search of refuge. At current count, the U.S. State Department estimates some 30,000-50,000 North Korean refugees currently live in China, while some non-governmental organizations put this figure as high as 300,000. Also according to the State Department, those North Koreans who are repatriated face harsh punishments, ranging from forced labor to execution. 
   Despite China's obligations under international refugee law, China continues to view North Koreans resident in China as economic migrants rather than political refugees, and, on this basis, refuses to grant U.N. agencies, including the U.N. Refugee Agency (UNHCR), access to these populations. Also because of its refusal to recognize North Koreans as refugees, China has argued that, under a bilateral 1986 repatriation agreement with North Korea, it must return all border crossers. While at times this bilateral agreement has, in practice,  been ignored, The government of China is actively locating and deporting border-crossers back to North Korea. 
   The practice of returning North Koreans who have fled to China is particularly worrisome, because, under the North Korean judicial system, to leave the country without state permission is considered as an act of treason. North Koreans who flee to neighboring nations, including China, face a high risk of execution should they ever return. 
   Mr. Speaker, North Korea is an extremely closed society, and millions of North Koreans live in desperate conditions. The regime is classified by Human Rights Watch as being ``among the world's most repressive.'' The government controls virtually all aspects of life, and political, economic, and religious freedoms are nonexistent. Without guarantees of due process and fair trials, citizens live in fear of arbitrary arrest, and of torture and execution by the state. The state controls all access to information, utilizing their control of the media to manipulate the population. Following 
   the famine of 1994-1998, food shortages persist, and many residents are to this day suffering from hunger. 
   Large numbers of North Koreans have fled these conditions, a significant percentage of which would likely fit the legal definition of refugees. The percentage of these refugees who are women is strikingly high, with recent estimates putting the figure potentially as high as 75%, an enormous increase from an estimated 20% only four to five years ago, though the reasons for this trend are unclear. Female refugees throughout the world face specific challenges, and, in China, any children born to North Korean women face an extremely uncertain future. 
   In 2004, Congress passed the North Korea Human Rights Act with overwhelming bipartisan support, in an effort to refocus U.S. attention on the people of North Korea. This legislation provided humanitarian assistance to the North Korean people, as well as improved access to information through radio broadcasts and other activities and resources to help refugees fleeing the oppressive regime. This legislation also required the President to appoint a special envoy on North Korea. 
   This legislation that we are considering reauthorizes this important bill, extending the North Korean Human Rights Act through fiscal year 2012. This doubles the original funding authorization for human rights and democracy programs enhancing the role of the special envoy position, making it a full-time ambassadorial rank post. 
   I believe that this bill makes necessary improvements upon the original North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004. I am a tireless advocate for human rights worldwide as my continual involvement in promoting human rights for countries such as Syria, Iran, Sudan, and Vietnam is a testament of my dedication towards human rights. I believe those fleeing North Korea should be provided with vital support and aid by the United States Government. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation makes an important statement about Congress's commitment in addressing violations of human rights, wherever they occur. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation in giving these people hope in humanity.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING PUBLIC CHILD WELFARE AGENCIES -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 789, honoring public child welfare agencies, nonprofit organizations and private entities providing services for foster children. I first would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Representative MICHELE BACHMANN of Minnesota, for introducing this important legislation. This resolution acknowledges the importance of foster parents and other community partners who care for hurting children. 
   Children are placed in foster care because of society's concern for their well-being. Any time spent by a child in temporary care should be therapeutic but may be harmful to the child's growth, development, and well-being. Interruptions in the continuity of a child's caregiver are often detrimental. Repeated moves from home to home compound the adverse consequences that stress and inadequate parenting have on the child's development and ability to cope. Adults cope with impermanence by building on an accrued sense of self-reliance and by anticipating and planning for a time of greater constancy. Children, however, especially when young, have limited life experience on which to establish their sense of self. In addition, their sense of time focuses exclusively on the present and precludes meaningful understanding of ``temporary'' versus ``permanent'' or anticipation of the future. 
   For young children, periods of weeks or months are not comprehensible. Disruption in either place or with a caregiver for even 1 day may be stressful. The younger the child and the more extended the period of uncertainty or separation, the more detrimental it will be to the child's well-being. 
   The observance brings sharply into focus the critical needs of foster children and the importance of our foster parents who respond so faithfully and selflessly to the children's needs. Some children are placed in foster care briefly while a family crisis is resolved. Others remain in care for longer periods of time, depending upon the circumstances that led to their removal from their family's home. Over 500,000 children in the United States are currently in foster care which is twice as many as 20 years ago. The majority of these children and youth have been removed from their homes because of abuse or neglect. Our foster parents deserve special praise because they open their homes and their hearts to foster children and love them unconditionally. They understand that a safe, secure home is very important to the healthy development of a child. 
   An increasing number of young children are being placed in foster care because of parental neglect. Neglect has very profound and long-lasting consequences on all aspects of child development--poor attachment formation, understimulation, development delay, poor physical development, and antisocial behavior. Being in an environment in which child-directed support and communication is limited makes it more difficult for a child to develop the brain connections that facilitate language and vocabulary development, and therefore may impair communication skills. Recent findings in infant mental health show how development can be facilitated, how treatment can enhance brain development and psychological health, and how prevention strategies can lessen the ill effects of neglect. 
   Adoption by foster families has the potential to benefit not only the child being adopted, but also the foster family and the child welfare agency. There are a number of reasons 
   that a child's foster parents may be the best adoptive parents for that child. Foster parents have a greater knowledge of a child's experiences prior to placement and know what behaviors to expect from the child. If they have sufficient background information about what happened to a child before this placement, some knowledge of how children generally respond to such experiences, and extensive information about this child's specific behavior patterns, the foster family is better able to understand and respond to the child's needs in a positive and appropriate way. Foster parents usually have fewer fantasies and fears about the child's birth family, because they often have met and know them as real people with real problems. Foster parents have a better understanding of their role and relationship with the agency--and perhaps a relationship with their worker. 
   Foster children experience a number of unique challenges based on instability in their home and school environments. Just over half of all foster children complete high school, 40 percent continue to rely on public assistance into adulthood and 25 percent will experience homelessness at one point in their lives. Numerous public child welfare agencies, nonprofit organizations and private entities work tirelessly to recruit loving foster families and improve the lives of foster children. These groups strive to consider the best interest of each child and focus on keeping families together when possible. They provide invaluable resources to foster families as well as teachers, counselors, physicians, clergy, and others who work closely with children in the foster care system. 
   Mr. Speaker, I recognize and honor the contributions of all public child welfare agencies, nonprofit organizations and private entities dedicated to finding homes for foster children and assisting foster families in securing their future success.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES AND SYMPATHY TO PEOPLE OF BURMA FOR LOSS OF LIFE AND DESTRUCTION CAUSED BY CYCLONE NARGIS -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1181, expressing condolences and sympathy to the people of Burma for the grave loss of life and vast destruction caused by Cyclone Nargis. I would like to thank my colleague Representative Crowley of New York for introducing this important legislation that reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the people of Burma who have been victims of the natural disaster caused by Cyclone Nargis. 
   Mr. Speaker, Burma has been a region of serious political unrest and economic changes. As my colleagues may know, in the evening of May 2, 2008, Cyclone Nargis struck the coast of Burma leaving in its wake catastrophic destruction. It was reported that an estimated 1.5 million people were severely affected by the cyclone. With winds reaching 190 kilometers per hour and an 11.5 foot storm surge that swept across affected areas, the world could only fathom the damage that was inflicted in horror. It has been projected that the damage caused by the cyclone significantly exceeds the government's ability to provide full relief for the victims and it has indicated its acceptance of assistance from the international community. 
   It is my sincere hope that the military-backed caretaker government currently in power in Burma will promptly lift the state of emergency in the remaining regions and move expeditiously to allow foreigners to administer vital care and aid to the people. At this dire state, our deepest concerns in supplying aid to all the people affected should be directed to Burma's willingness to openly allow international efforts. 
   In this key period of political change, one that will hopefully allow for a more free and fair democratic Burma, the nation has been hit by an unthinkable natural disaster that has affected the country. The country's infrastructure is in shambles and it is estimated that there are 22,000 dead with 41,000 missing. In the midst of the rice shortages that South Asia is experiencing, the most productive agricultural lands and crops of Burma have also been destroyed. It will take an estimated two years for Burma to be able to produce food for its people and will need continued assistance and support throughout that time. 
   As a member of the international community, it is in the best interest to provide humanitarian services and aid to those in need in Burma. The United States must offer its full support and continued aid in restoring the country's self-sufficient agricultural sector to reduce the strain on food shortages in the entire region. It is imperative to cultivate harmonious relations between the United States government and that of Burma to help facilitate the mission of international peace. 
   I believe that it is crucial that the United States government express its heartfelt sympathy and support to the people of Burma in the wake of this terrible disaster. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation and to further their efforts to ensuring the complete restoration of the well-being of Burma.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND ARMS EXPORT CONTROL REFORM ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5916, the Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Reform Act of 2008, introduced by my colleague Mr. Berman. I would like to thank the chairman for his leadership on this important legislation, which will make important reforms to U.S. arms exports. 
   I would also like to thank the chairman and the committee staff for working with me to incorporate two important amendments that I offered to this bill, both of which will encourage respect of basic standards of human rights in countries receiving security assistance and arms exports. I believe that these two amendments improve this legislation by taking steps to ensure that U.S. taxpayer dollars are not being used to arm governments contributing to or engaging in massive violations of human rights, including genocide. 
   My first amendment, which will be inserted as section 406 of this legislation, states that 
   ``It is the sense of Congress that the United States should not provide security assistance or arms exports to nations contributing to massive, widespread, and systematic violations of human rights or acts of genocide, particularly with respect to Darfur, Sudan.'' 
   This Congress has already taken remarkable strides to condemn the genocide in Sudan, now entering its fifth year, and to work to ensure that the people of this Nation are not unwittingly supporting these human rights abuses. My amendment reaffirms that it is the sense of Congress that violations of this nature, which are gross, widespread, and systematic, are a serious issue, and that the United States should not be providing security assistance to countries that are contributing to such abuses. 
   In addition, I offered a second amendment, which would also serve to reinforce the respect for basic human rights under this act. Section 103 of this legislation requires a ``comprehensive and systematic review and assessment'' of the U.S. arms export controls system by the President, to be completed not later than March 31, 2009, and sets forth a number of elements that such a review must contain. My second amendment adds an additional element to this report. It states that the President's report must also: 
   ``(F) assess the extent to which export control policies and practices under the Arms Export Control Act promote the protection of basic human rights.'' 
   This language will ensure that Congress will remain apprised of the implications of U.S. security assistance and arms exports on basic human rights. Through the inclusion of this amendment, we will ensure that Congress has all the information it needs to fully understand the impact of our security assistance. Because this amendment only requires an assessment of current human rights practices, it does not run the risk of restricting assistance to nations that, like Liberia, have a poor history of human rights but now, under new leadership, have made important strides toward respect of basic human freedoms. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that a nation's human rights record should be one element that the United States uses when determining whether security assistance or arms trade will be extended to that nation. My two amendments to this legislation seek to ensure that the United States is not arming governments that are contributing to or committing the grossest violations of human rights, like genocide, and to collect information on how our security assistance policies are affecting human rights in nations to which we are providing arms. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation, H.R. 5916, we are considering today includes a number of important provisions which will strengthen and reform U.S. security assistance and the 
   defense trade licensing and review process. Congress has jurisdiction over oversight of both the U.S. arms export control process and individual sales, under the Arms Export Control Act, while the Department of State has primary responsibility to ensure that arms exports are in line with U.S. foreign policy and security objectives. Unfortunately, the State Department arms export process has broken down, and there is now an accumulated backlog of approximately 10,000 unprocessed applications for arms export license. Due to mismanagement and an underallocation of resources, the State Department process has proven dysfunctional. 
   This legislation contains a number of important provisions which will alleviate this serious and ongoing problem. It sets up a strategic review, to be conducted by the President, to determine the effectiveness of the current export control regime, and to make improvements where necessary, including in the efficiency in export licensing. Further, it establishes performance goals for the export licensing process, ensuring adequate staffing, flexibility in use of exporter annual registration fees for administrative purposes, regular Inspector General audits, and regular review of items for inclusion/deletion from the U.S. Munitions List. Finally, this legislation authorizes a special up-front licensing regime for spares and components for weapons systems previously sold to U.S. allies, and increasing licensing process transparency measures to facilitate Congressional oversight. 
   In addition to these important provisions, this legislation will strengthen vital security relationships with a number of U.S. allies. It adds South Korea to a list of countries already receiving expedited Congressional review, including NATO nations, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan. This move recognizes the critical importance of South Korea to U.S. security and regional stability, and it is a significant symbolic move. 
   This legislation also extends the same recognition to Israel, and it authorizes the initial phase-in of the Foreign Military Financing formula agreed on by the United States and Israel last year. Further, this legislation requires the administration to empirically assess, on an ongoing basis, the State of Israel's Qualitative Military Edge against conventional or non-conventional security threats. This provision codifies a principle that has been stated by every President since Lyndon Johnson, and requires the administration to provide an assessment to Congress every 4 years, to be used in reviewing arms exports to other Middle Eastern countries. These provisions continue U.S. assistance to Israel, and they provide for increased congressional oversight of this assistance. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation also allows for a waiver of Section 102 (b) of the Arms Export Control Act, commonly known as the Glenn Amendment, in the case of the North Korea nuclear program. The Glenn amendment, adopted in 1994, prohibits all U.S. economic and military assistance to any state that carries out a nuclear explosion and that is, under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, defined as a non-nuclear weapon state. In light of the nuclear disablement and dismantlement activities agreed to in the Six-Party Talks, this waiver will grant the administration the ability to request appropriations directly to the Department of Energy for these activities, rather than its current practice of channeling such assistance through the State Department's Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, which has other high-priority demands on its funding and personnel. I support this provision because I believe that it is in the vital national security interest of the United States to continue to disable and hopefully remove North Korea's means to make more nuclear weapons, weapons or material that may be used against our interests or even transferred to other states. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I support a provision in Title V of this legislation, which will grant to the government of Pakistan naval vessels, including the Oliver Hazard Perry class guided missile frigate McInerney (FFG-8). I believe that the continuation of U.S. assistance to Pakistan is particularly vital at this moment, following the February 2008 Pakistani elections in which two main opposition parties won a majority of seats. At this crucial time for the  new Pakistani Government, I believe that the continuation of U.S. assistance is vital if we are to see crucial reforms and ongoing strides in the global fight against terrorism. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation will strengthen and reform the process of U.S. security assistance and arms exports. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE FILL SUSPENSION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6200, To suspend the acquisition of petroleum for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Vermont, Representative Welch. This legislation suspends the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for the rest of the year, as long as the price of crude oil remains above $75 per barrel, and is an important first step in addressing America's current energy crisis. 
   Mr. Speaker, we are all painfully aware of the devastation high energy prices have had on American families. This New Direction Congress, of which I am proud to be a part, is fighting to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and bring down record gas prices, and launch a cleaner, smarter energy future for America that lowers costs and creates hundreds of thousands of green jobs. In addition to being a representative from Houston, Texas, the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years, I have been the Chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. As such, I recognize that energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. 
   Today, as the national average of gas has reached a record high of $3.72 a gallon, this legislation is an imperative step in addressing a burgeoning crisis. Each day, it takes 70,000 barrels of oil off the market to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which at 97 percent full is at it highest level ever. While the President last week stated that he did not believe suspending filling the reserve would affect prices, in 2006 when he was about to apply the same strategy we seek today, he stated, ``One way to ease price is to increase supply ....... I've directed the Department of Energy to defer filling the reserve this summer....... So by deferring deposits until the fall, we'll leave a little more oil on the market.'' Despite calls from both sides of the aisle and both bodies of this Congress, President Bush has failed to listen to the will of the American people. As such, today the Senate passed a similar provision by a vote of 97-1, and this House intends to do the same. 
   Not only will suspending the fill of the SPR work this time, it has in the past when it was utilized by President George W. Bush, President Clinton, and President George H.W. Bush. By temporarily diverting the 70,000 barrels of oil that go into the SPR a day, this legislation could reduce gas prices from 5 to 24 cents a gallon, helping American families, businesses, and the economy as a whole. 
   In 2006, when President George W. Bush deferred deliveries from the SPR, he stated, ``Our Strategic Reserve is sufficiently large enough to guard against any major supply disruption over the next few months.'' Today, we have 702 million barrels of oil in the SPR, which is 14 million more barrels of oil than the 688 million in the SPR when President Bush suspended deliveries two years ago. I also believe we should put a moratorium on gas taxes through payment by energy company profits. 
   The President has the legal authority to suspend the fill of the SPR and help already suffering American families during this period of economic downturn. Because the President has ignored our requests to address this crisis, it is our duty to support this legislation and help the families, businesses, and economy of the United States. As such, I strongly support this legislation and urge my colleagues to join me and do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SYMPATHY EXTENDED TO PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues in offering my deepest sympathy and that of the constituents of the 18th Congressional District to the people of Mainland China, the People's Republic of China, for the enormous tragedy that they are now facing. There are 12,000 expected dead and more, some 19,000 still buried. And what has been the singular tragedy is innocent children sitting in their classroom seats and having a building collapse upon them. 
   We are told that if this earthquake had occurred in the United States, it would range from Maine to Arizona. We can imagine the enormity of this tragic situation. I would hope that the United States is moving quickly to be of assistance and that we will keep the people of China, the People's Republic of China, in our thoughts. 
   And as we offer them our prayers and thoughts, let us be reminded of those in the United States who suffered through the terrible tornadoes that our country has been experiencing over a period of time. I hope we will keep all in our prayers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MENTAL HEALTH MONTH -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1134, supporting the goals and ideals of Mental Health Month. I would first like to thank my distinguished colleague, Representative GRACE NAPOLITANO of California, for introducing this important legislation. This legislation designates the month of May to raise awareness about mental health conditions and the importance of mental wellness for all. The mental health and well-being of Americans is a critical issue that affects not only the quality of life, but also the health of our communities and our economic stability. 
   Since the turn of this century, thanks in large measure to research-based public health innovations, the lifespan of the average American has nearly doubled. Today, our Nation's physical health has never been better. Moreover, illnesses of the body once shrouded in fear--such as cancer, epilepsy, and HIV/AIDS to name a few--increasingly are seen as treatable, survivable, even curable ailments. Yet, despite unprecedented knowledge gained in just the past three decades about the brain and human behavior, mental health is often an afterthought and illnesses of the mind remain shrouded in fear and misunderstanding. 
   Much remains to be learned about the causes, treatment, and prevention of mental and behavioral disorders. Obstacles that may limit the availability or accessibility of mental health services for some Americans are being dismantled, but disparities persist. Still, thanks to research and the experiences of millions of individuals who have a mental disorder, their family members, and other advocates, the Nation has the power today to tear down the most formidable obstacle to future progress in the arena of mental illness and health. That obstacle is stigma. Stigmatization of mental illness is an excuse for inaction and discrimination that is inexcusably outmoded in 1999. 
   The burden of mental illness on health and productivity in the United States and throughout the world has long been profoundly underestimated. Data developed by the massive Global Burden of Disease study, conducted by the World Health Organization, the World Bank, and Harvard University, reveal that mental illness, including suicide, ranks second in the burden of disease in established market economies, such as the United States. Mental illness emerged from the Global Burden of Disease study as a surprisingly significant contributor to the burden of disease. 
   Mental illness is the term that refers collectively to all diagnosable mental disorders. Mental disorders are health conditions that are characterized by alterations in thinking, mood, or behavior--or some combination thereof--associated with distress 
   and/or impaired functioning. Alzheimer's disease exemplifies a mental disorder largely marked by alterations in thinking, especially forgetting. Depression exemplifies a mental disorder largely marked by alterations in mood. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder exemplifies a mental disorder largely marked by alterations in behavior, over activity, and/or thinking, inability to concentrate. Alterations in thinking, mood, or behavior contribute to a host of problems--patient distress, impaired functioning, or heightened risk of death, pain, disability, or loss of freedom. 
   Suicide is a major, preventable public health problem. In 2004, it was the eleventh leading cause of death in the U.S., accounting for 32,439 deaths. The overall rate was 10.9 suicide deaths per 100,000 people. An estimated eight to 25 attempted suicides occur per every suicide death. Suicidal behavior is complex. Some risk factors vary with age, gender, or ethnic group and may occur in combination or change over time. Older Americans are disproportionately likely to die by suicide. Of every 100,000 people ages 65 and older, 14.3 died by suicide in 2004. This figure is higher than the national average of 10.9 suicides per 100,000 people in the general population. Non-Hispanic white men age 85 or older had an even higher rate, with 17.8 suicide deaths per 100,000. 
   Depression and post-traumatic stress disorder are very high among veterans from wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, leading to suicide rates even higher than combat deaths. Since October 2001 in Iraq and Afghanistan wars fought about 1.6 million U.S. soldiers, about 4500 of them died, according to Defense Department. The Rand study has found that 20 percent of returning U.S. soldiers suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder or depression, but only half of them get treatment. Comparing these figures it becomes clear that troops suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder complications more than from actual war. Soldiers with combat traumas are more likely to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. Of these troops 53 percent have received mental care during the last few years, but Rand report says that half of them did not receive adequate care. This is one of leading causes leading to depression development in veterans. There are currently 300,000 soldiers suffering from mental illnesses and they need new innovative treatment for depression or PTSD treatment. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support the goals and ideals of Mental Health Month in order to emphasize scientific facts and findings regarding mental health and to remove the stigma associated. I recognize that mental well-being is equally as important as physical well-being for our citizens, our communities, our businesses, our economy, and our Nation. I encourage all organizations and health practitioners to use Mental Health Month as an opportunity to promote mental well-being and awareness, ensure access to appropriate services, and support overall quality of life for those with mental illness.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING AND HONORING THE EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 134, to recognize the employees of the Department of Homeland Security for their efforts and contributions to protect and secure the Nation. 
   The Department of Homeland Security is critical in ensuring our great nation's preparation for future terrorist threats and attacks. Its employees step beyond the ordinary call of duty and tirelessly help to prepare our Nation to counter acts of terrorism, natural disasters, and other emergencies. 
   After the events of September 11, 2001 the American people became painfully aware of the difference between feeling secure and actually being secure. The president responded to the need for development and implementation of a comprehensive national strategy to secure the U.S. from terrorist threats or attacks and thus on November 25, 2002 with the largest government reorganization in 50 years, DHS was established. 
   More than 208,000 employees of the Department work with state, local and tribal partners to ensure disaster preparedness at all levels of government while sacrificing their invaluable time with their family and working long hours to stand willing, able, and ready to respond if catastrophe strikes. 
   The Homeland Security Department's employees not only stand vigilant and steadfast against terrorist attacks but fulfill the mission of the department to protect continuously our Nation's borders, airport, seaports, rail lines, and other transit systems. 
   While it is fitting and appropriate to recognize the contributions of DHS employees, Mr. Speaker, it is also necessary to recognize that this Administration continues to deny labor rights to some of the most vital workers in the Transportation Security Administration--the TSA Screeners. Hiding behind the argument and the rhetoric that it needs a flexible security screening force, the Bush Administration continues to equate basic collective bargaining rights with a lack of patriotism. That is, the Administration is operating under the mistaken belief that allowing employees to collectively bargain for rights that others at DHS have will negatively impact homeland security. This is simply untrue. 
   If the Administration's argument were true, then this means that the law enforcement officers at the Border Patrol, Customs and Border Protection, and the Federal Protective Services are all negatively impacting homeland security--since these brave men and women have collective bargaining rights. And, despite having these rights, these folks are part of a flexible and highly sought after human resource, just like the TSA Screeners. So, as we honor all DHS employees, Mr. Speaker, let us not forget that we must do more to make DHS a fair and equitable place to work. 
   I thank Congressmen Carney and Bilirakis for managing this important bipartisan legislation and I strongly urge my colleagues to stand together to commend, applaud and commemorate the employees of the DHS. Their important duties extend beyond the ordinary. They protect our homeland and our people. 
   DHS employees have sacrificed and worked tirelessly to safely protect us not only from terrorist attacks but our borders as well as our airports, seaports, rail lines, and other transit systems. For this, they deserve our gratitude.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ESTABLISHING A PILOT PROGRAM IN CERTAIN DISTRICT COURTS TO ENCOURAGE ENHANCEMENT OF EXPERTISE IN PATENT CASES AMONG DISTRICT JUDGES -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support of H.R. 34, which authorizes a new 10-year pilot program designed to increase judges' expertise in presiding over patent cases. Under the new pilot program, district judges could request to hear cases relating to patent law or plant variety protection. Currently, cases in Federal district courts are assigned randomly. Under the measure, if one judge declines to hear a patent case, the case could be reassigned to one of the judges in the pilot program who has requested to hear such cases. 
   The bill directs the Administrative Office of the Courts, within six months of enactment, to designate at least five courts in at least three different judicial circuits in which the pilot program would be conducted. It requires that these districts for the pilot program be chosen from the 15 districts that have had the largest number of patent and plant variety protection cases filed within the past year, and that the pilot program is conducted in districts in which at least three judges will participate. It also requires the administrative Office of the Courts to submit periodic reports to the Committee on the Judiciary for the House and the Senate regarding the effectiveness of the pilot program. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 34 enjoys strong bipartisan support in the Judiciary Committee. I urge my colleagues to support this pilot program.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING AND PRAISING THE NAACP ON THE OCCASION OF ITS 98TH ANNIVERSARY -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 44, which gives fitting honor and praise to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on the occasion of the 98th anniversary of its founding. 
   The NAACP is the oldest, largest, most historic and most influential civil rights organization in the United States. First organized in 1905, the group was known as the Niagara Movement when they began meeting at a hotel situated on the Canadian side of the Niagara Falls. They had to meet in Canada because American hotels in Niagara Falls were segregated. Under the leadership of the Harvard-educated scholar, the great W.E.B. DuBois, the group would later be known as the National Negro Committee before finally adopting the name by which it has been known for the last 98 years--the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, or NAACP--at its second conference in 1910. 
   The first official meeting was held in 1909 exactly 98 years ago today: February 12, the centennial of the birth of President Abraham Lincoln. The mission of the association was clearly delineated in its charter: 
   To promote equality of rights and to eradicate caste or race prejudice among the citizens of the United States; to advance the interest of colored citizens; to secure for them impartial suffrage; and to increase their opportunities for securing justice in the courts, education for the children, employment according to their ability and complete equality before law. 
   For nearly a century, the NAACP has stayed true to its charter and championed the cause of justice and equality in America. It has fought valiantly and tirelessly on behalf of African Americans and others to secure their civil rights and liberties and the full measure of justice and equality for all. 
   At a time when African Americans were treated as second-class citizens and the scourge of slavery was still rampant, the NAACP emerged to ensure that the rights, interests and voices of African Americans did not go unheard. 
   As Chair for the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am especially concerned with fair access to quality education for today's youth. I am personally grateful to the NAACP for its leadership in winning the greatest legal victory for civil rights in American history: the 1954 landmark decision in Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), in which the Supreme Court struck down de jure segregation in elementary schools. NAACP General Counsel Thurgood Marshall, who would later become the first African American associate justice of the Supreme Court, forcefully argued and persuaded the Court to rule unanimously that in the field of public education, ``separate but equal'' was inherently unequal. That decision gave hope to millions of Americans that their children might enjoy the full promise of America that had been denied their forebears for more than three centuries. 
   The NAACP used the Supreme Court's decision in Brown to press for desegregation of schools and public facilities throughout the country. In 1955, Rosa Parks was arrested and fined for refusing to give up her seat to a white man in Montgomery, Alabama. Her act of civil disobedience triggered the Montgomery Bus Boycott, one of the largest and most successful mass movements against racial segregation in history and ignited the Civil Rights Movement. Daisy Bates spearheaded the campaign by the Little Rock Nine to integrate Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas. 
   The NAACP remains committed to achieving its goals through nonviolence, the legal process, and moral and political suasion, and through direct actions such as marches, demonstrations, and boycotts to give voice to the hopes and aspirations of African Americans and others who lack the power to make their voices heard. 
   There is still a need for justice and equal treatment for African Americans and other vulnerable populations in our country. Thankfully, the NAACP is alive, well, vital, and effective. I am grateful for the many fights for equality that the organization has won, and thankful that the NAACP will be there in the future to champion the cause of justice wherever and whenever it needs a spokesman. 
   Happy birthday, NAACP and thank you for all you have done to make our country better. I urge all Members to join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 44.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 9066 AND SUPPORTING AND RECOGNIZING A NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 122, which lends support to the goals of the Japanese American, German American, and Italian American communities in recognizing a National Day of Remembrance to increase public awareness of the restriction, exclusion, and internment that these communities suffered during World War II. 
   In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, requiring 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry to be removed forcibly from their homes and placed in internment camps--two-thirds of these were American citizens, none of which had ever shown disloyalty to the American cause. Forced to live under harsh conditions, the last internment camp closed four long years later. 
   A little known fact of this shameful history is that Americans of German, Italian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, and Romanian descent were interned as well. Further, those that escaped internment often suffered from discrimination and prejudice at the hands of legislators and their fellow citizens. 
   These innocent Americans were treated unjustly by their own government during a time of war, simply because of their national origins. Such maltreatment must not go unremembered. It is absolutely essential to remember the past mistakes of our government in an effort to avoid future ones. 
   In times of war it may be easy to get carried away and put labels on those around us, assuming what their political ideals are based solely on their national origin or religious background. But as we have seen in World War II, such assumptions are unjust and can lead to disastrous consequences for a group of individuals. 
   By celebrating a National Day of Remembrance on February 19th, we renew our promise as a Nation to never let this happen again. We must ensure that all Americans are aware of these historical events, so that they may join us in an effort to prevent the repetition of such acts of prejudice. I commend my colleague from California, Mr. HONDA, for introducing H. Res. 122 to support these goals. 
   I also commend the efforts of other Americans who recognize the significance of these events and create awareness within our communities, especially among our youth. The Public Broadcasting Service has made efforts to do just that, by providing a classroom resource online to teach middle and high school students about these events and to help them think critically about their impact. During the week of February 19, 2007, this year's National Day of Remembrance, I encourage our Nation's educators to teach their youth about these events in our Nation's history. 
   In honor of the Japanese American, German American, and Italian American communities within our Nation, let us never allow such unjust practices occur in this great Nation again. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 122. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PINEDALE ASSEMBLY CENTER -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 109, to recognize the historical significance of the Pinedale Assembly Center in Fresno, California, the reporting site for 4,823 Japanese Americans who were unjustly interned during World War II. 
   It is fitting that a memorial will be established at this historical location, especially on this year's National Day of Remembrance. On that same day in 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, requiring 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry to be removed forcibly from their homes and placed in internment camps--two-thirds of these were American citizens, none of which had ever shown disloyalty to the American cause. Forced to live under harsh conditions, the last internment camp closed four long years later. 
   These innocent Americans were treated unjustly by their own government during a time of war, simply because of their national origins, and such an injustice must not go unremembered. It is absolutely essential to remember the past mistakes of our government in an effort to avoid future ones. 
   In times of war it may be easy to get carried away and put labels on those around us, imputing disloyalty to persons of different national origins or religious backgrounds. But as we saw in World War II, such assumptions are frequently wrong, unjust, and can lead to disastrous consequences for a group of individuals. 
   I thank my colleague, Representative Costa, for introducing this important legislation. We must never let such unjust practices occur in this great Nation again. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 109.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA TO END ITS CRACKDOWN IN TIBET -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairman and  as well the ranking member of the full committee, to the Speaker of the House for her continued leadership. And I am always reminded of the late Chairman Tom Lantos and his commitment to the people of Tibet. 
   Madam Speaker, I've had the honor and privilege of being with the people of Tibet in their temples, listening to their plea, walking alongside of them, admiring and respecting their tenacity, determination, and their love of freedom and peace. As well, the Dalai Lama has visited not only this community but also the State of Texas, and we have had the pleasure of seeing him be a guiding force for peace. 
   It is time now for this resolution and the call that it makes for the People's Republic to shine the light on Tibet and give them the rights of engagement and discussion because what we are facing are accumulated grievances of almost six decades of cultural, religious, economic, and linguistic repression of the Tibetan people by the Government of the People's Republic of China. It has resulted in these resentments, and it has resulted in this oppression in the expression of the Tibetan people. 
   As this Olympic torch travels around the world, you will see the people who are peace loving and loving human rights standing up. As it comes to my city, as it goes to other cities, there will be those of us who stand against it. In fact, we have called upon the Chinese Ambassador to wake up and to recognize that the world is crying out for justice for the Tibetan people. 
   The resolution calls on this particular government, the Chinese Government, to begin a dialogue with the Dalai Lama, to bring about respect, to allow international monitors and journalists. I truly believe it is time now for the world to stand up. 
   And so to my colleagues, it is important that this resolution be passed. I believe we should be in front of the Chinese Embassy here in Washington, D.C., petitioning that government to hear the cry of the Tibetan people, to respect the Dalai Lama, and to bring finally peace and freedom and, yes, democracy to a peace-loving people. The oppressors cannot oppress the oppressed forever, and we stand against it. This resolution speaks to a resolution. We ask for the agreement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA TO END ITS CRACKDOWN IN TIBET -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1077, Calling on the Government of the People's Republic of China to end its crackdown in Tibet and enter into a substantive dialogue with His Holiness the Dalai Lama to find a negotiated solution that represents the distinctive language, culture, religious identity, and fundamental freedoms of all Tibetans, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Nancy Pelosi. This important and timely legislation calls for an imperative dialogue which will set forth the road to peace and stability. 
   In recent days, the news has been littered with reports of human rights abuses by the Chinese government regarding Tibetan dissent. As we approach the 2008 Olympics that will be held in China, it is imperative that we look into the reports of violations of basic human rights by the Chinese government. 
   On March 4th, Tibetan monks began peaceful protests in the Tibetan capitol, Lhasa, which escalated into violence resulting in a staunch crackdown by the Chinese government, the effects of which have yet to be seen as international media has been strictly restricted in the area. What began as a peaceful protest for religious freedom and autonomy has resulted in Beijing admittedly sending thousands of paramilitary troops and police to the region in order to maintain ``peace and stability.'' 
   March 14, 2008 marked the 49th anniversary of the Tibetan people's historic uprising against the Chinese government that forced His Holiness the Dalai Lama into exile in India, where he still resides. When Tibetan Buddhist monks and nuns attempted to assemble in peaceful demonstration on this anniversary, they were met with excessive force by Chinese authorities. Last month's riots in the Tibetan capitol of Lhasa have once again drawn international interest to the plight of the Tibetan people in their struggle for autonomy and religious freedom. The Chinese government has reported that more than 1,000 people have been captured or turned themselves in, in relation to their participation in said riots. 
   Last week, Amnesty International released a report stating that despite claims that hosting the Olympics will lead to Chinese observance of international human rights law, the approach of this historic event has actually lead to a crackdown of dissent on the part of the Chinese government. Just one day after the release of 
   Amnesty International's report, Hu Jia, a Chinese activist who has publicized human rights abuses across China, was sentenced to three and a half years in prison for ``inciting subversion of state power and the socialist system.'' 
   I wish to discuss briefly the importance of the relationship between the United States, China and Tibet and highlight some important legislation that I have supported to provide assistance to the human rights situation in Tibet. As we are well aware, controversy exists over Tibet's current political status as a part of China. This precarious relationship between China and Tibet has prompted U.S. congressional actions in support of Tibet's status and traditions. 
   Tibet has been under active Beijing rule since between 1949-1951, when the newly established communist government of the People's Republic of China, PRC, sent military troops to occupy Tibet. It was some years later, in 1959, that the Dalai Lama, who is still respected and regarded as the spiritual leader of the Tibetan people, along with his followers, fled from Tibet and went into exile in India. 
   As reports of human rights abuses and political activities surfaced regarding China's continuing repressive social and political controls in Tibet, it garnered more interest and congressional consideration in the late 1980s. Tenzin Gyatso, the fourteenth Dalai Lama, is the unrivaled spiritual and cultural leader of the Tibetan people. The Dalai Lama has used his leadership to promote democracy, freedom, and peace for the Tibetan people through a negotiated settlement of the Tibet issue, based on autonomy within the People's Republic of China. For his efforts on behalf of humanity, the Dalai Lama was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. Most recently in 2006, I lent my support to S. Res. 2784, awarding the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest expression of national appreciation for exceptional service, to the Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso. I appreciate his efforts to promote peace and non-violence throughout the globe, and his efforts to find democratic reconciliation for the Tibetan people 
   through his ``Middle Way'' approach. I am grateful for the extensive work that the Dalai Lama has done for his country and on behalf of humanity. 
   Congress has taken a particular interest in the affairs of Tibet. Beginning in 1987, Congress passed non-binding measures declaring that the United States should make Tibet's situation a higher policy priority and urged China to establish a constructive dialogue with the Dalai Lama. 
   As a Member of Congress, I am interested in the welfare and human rights affairs of the Tibetan people and have previously proposed an amendment to provide $2 million in the Economic Support Fund for monitoring the human rights situation in Tibet and for training and education of Tibetans in democracy activities and an additional $2 million in the Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund for the Tibetan refugee program. 
   Madam Speaker, I am a staunch advocate for human rights and desire to see the plight of the Tibetan people rectified. As such, I strongly support H. Res. 1077 and call upon my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1401, RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to address you this afternoon. I thank my good friend Mr. Hastings from Florida, and let me thank the Rules Committee for the thoughtful and constructive rule that has been put forward and acknowledge my colleague on the subcommittee, Mr. Bilirakis, for his comments about the underlying bill. 
   Just to inform my colleagues, this is a bill long overdue, and procedurally I believe that we moved this bill in regular order. We held two hearings. First of all, a hearing that allowed us to hear from the vastness of government agencies, who, I guess out of their testimony, one could argue that they made a very clear case that we needed a regulatory framework within which to secure the Nation's railroads and transit systems. 
   Obviously, through the tragedies of London and Madrid, we knew that the clock was ticking; and this committee, under the chairmanship of Chairman Thompson, knows that we must advance the ball, building on the work that this committee has done as a bipartisan committee over the years with a number of chairpersons, that we must move the ball forward to ensure the security of the Nation's homeland. 
   That means this particular subcommittee will address questions dealing with not only the questions of rail, but of aviation, of bus, of trucking, and as well critical infrastructure that heretofore may not have been assessed as closely as we should have. 
   So we held one hearing. At a second hearing we were able to hear from a number of industry persons to tell us, again, of some of the mountains that they had to climb in order to ensure security of the homeland. 
   That being so, this is a comprehensive bill. I am delighted it includes language regarding research and training, whistleblower language that comports with the Waxman legislation, so we are consistent in the legislative structure. I support, as well, the manager's amendment by Mr. Thompson, which focuses on some aspects that I think help the bill. 
   There will be some issues that I hope that we can move further along, and that is a relationship of consultation between the Homeland Security Department and the Department of Transportation. 
   As relates to security, I think it is key that the Department of Homeland Security and the Homeland Security Committee lead in consultation with a number of our jurisdictional allies. 
   I want to thank the chairman of the transportation committee and the chairperson of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Congresswoman Corrine Brown. We worked very collegially together, and I think this is a strong product. 
   Might I also just indicate that I hope my colleagues will pay close attention to language that would eliminate Amtrak from security grants. One of the largest modes of passenger transportation, which has had its ups and downs, sometimes the passenger rate is up, sometimes it is down, but it does not mean that it is not a vulnerable target. 
   It is interesting that if you run your transit system 24 hours a day, for example, there has to be a period where there is low passenger census. Does that mean that it is any less a target to threats than it would be during peak times? So I hope my colleagues will consider the vulnerability that the Sessions amendment gives to this whole bill and the idea of securing extensively the rail system. 
   Might I suggest that amendments that would undermine the Transportation Security Administration breeding program increase also pose concern, because, as we know, we have not yet had a system in rail travel that addresses the question of security of baggage. So this breeding program, dealing with domestic animals, is an important aspect of dealing with the question of security. 
   I would also suggest that you don't want to leave out the provision that we have in the over-the-road bus program, and that should not be eliminated. 
   This is a good rule. I ask my colleagues to support it, and I hope they will support the underlying bill.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak about the history of this bill. This bill was badly needed because, as you know, the issue of transportation security has been over looked. This bill authorizes more than 5 billion dollars over the next four years for rail, public transportation, and over-the-road bus security. Having seen the horrific events in Madrid and London, something must be done to improve transportation security. We know that this bill moves in that direction because we've had a long and distinguished legislative record resulting in this bipartisan bill. 
   As the Chairwoman for the Homeland Security's Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection we have held two hearings on the topic of transportation security. On February 6, the Subcommittee received testimony from the government on transportation security. On February 13, the Subcommittee heard testimony from industry and labor about the issue as well. Both of these hearings were attended by the Subcommittee's Ranking Member, Mr. Lungren from California, and other Committee Members from both parties. 
   In these hearings, the Subcommittee heard from over nine different witnesses. The witnesses included, Assistant Secretary Hawley, with the Transportation Security Administration, two witnesses from the Department of Transportation, one from the Federal Railroad Administration, and the other from the Federal Transit Administration, and the Government Accountability Office's rail security expert. We also heard from the Amtrak's Inspector General, the Association of American Railroads, and the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Finally, we also heard from the Transport Workers Union and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. As such, I think we have heard from all the stakeholders impacted by this bill. 
   Besides hearings, the Subcommittee held a mark-up on March 1, 2007, in which there were ten amendments offered and discussed. These amendments dealt with issues, including whistleblower rights, reducing protections for protecting sensitive information, and others. I believe the mark-up yielded a strong bill, which was made even stronger by the Full Committee's mark-up and its consideration of more than twenty amendments. 
   Mr. Speaker, because the Homeland Security bill was passed unanimously out of Committee and it represents a compromise between the Transportation & Infrastructure and Oversight and Government Reform Committees, and is a great step forward to protecting our transportation systems, I urge my colleagues to support the Rule.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the distinguished chairman of the committee and thank the ranking member and the members of the committee who worked so diligently. Let me specifically thank the members of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Critical Infrastructure. Each and every one of them worked tirelessly to contribute to this bill, along with members of the full committee. 
   This has been a very tough mountain to climb. We waited for 4 years to travel through a number of legislative initiatives, and finally we reached a point where we are able to bring to the floor the Rail and Public Transportation Security Act of 2007. 
   Let me thank the chairperson, Mr. Thompson, for his vigorous leadership and his concern, so much so that he organized and made sure that the full Homeland Security Committee was organized to have a subcommittee that would focus on transit systems which would include over-the-road buses, trucking and a number of other important transit systems or transportation systems that heretofore had not been covered. 
   Let me also thank him for the inclusion of the aspect of critical infrastructure because, interestingly enough, when you look at transportation systems, critical infrastructure plays into the holistic approach to security. So this bill I think has a holistic approach to ensuring that we have security, and it has as a backdrop the tragedies of Madrid and the tragedies, of course, of London. 
   So what we do is, how do we fix the problems. I think we have a hands-on approach, but a balanced approach, between the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security. We increase the number of inspectors to 600. We require a national rail and public transportation security plan. For the first time in the history of this Nation, we will clarify the roles and responsibilities of Federal, State and local agencies, so that if you have a local transit agency, they will have the opportunity to develop a transit security system. I would encourage my colleagues as this bill makes its way that we focus on local jurisdictions having security plans. 
   It will strengthen intelligence sharing. One of the Achilles heels of 9/11 was that we did not share intelligence. We will do that as relates to transportation systems. 
   Then we will lay out plans for public outreach and public education initiatives. It will include strategies and time lines for research and develop. We have expanded, of course, this whole idea of security to diverse groups that have not heretofore had the opportunity, minority institutions, minority contractors and women-owned businesses that can become engaged. 
   And, yes, our committee had a hearing on the tension, but also the separation, between the hiring of individuals and the requirements of railroad companies versus the requirements of the Department of Homeland Security, so we wouldn't use security as a reason for terminating individuals. 
   This bill has a positive end to it. We will bring rail security to America, Mr.  Chairman. I am proud to have been the subcommittee Chair on this and proud of this committee. I ask my colleagues to support this bill.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this bill. 
   As the Chairwoman for the Homeland Security's Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, we have held numerous vital hearings on the topic of transportation security. These hearings were attended by the Subcommittee's Ranking Member, Mr. Lungren from California, and other Committee Members from both parties. 
   Over the past couple of months, the Committee on Homeland Security has heard testimony on the important issue of rail, mass transit, and over-the-road bus security. After hearing the experts' testimony, I, like many Americans, am appalled by the failure to provide ongoing and continuous oversight in transportation security--specifically, in the areas of rail and mass transit. 
   Throughout the world, mass transit systems have long been targets of terrorist attacks. Algerian extremists set off bombs on the subways of Paris in 1995 and 1996; the Irish Republican Army waged a long-running terrorist campaign against the London Underground; Palestinian terrorists have carried out suicide bombings on Israel's buses; Chechnyan terrorists killed 40 people by bombing the Moscow subway in 2004; and, in the first terrorist use of a chemical weapon, a Japanese cult--Aum Shinrykyo--released sarin gas on a Tokyo subway in 1995. 
   Recent events make it clear that the threat continues. On the morning of March 11th, 2004, ten explosions occurred at the height of the Madrid rush hour aboard four commuter trains. On July 7, 2005, during the morning peak travel hours, three separate explosions ripped through the London Underground and a fourth explosion occurred on a double-decker bus. These four explosions, the result of coordinated suicide-bombings by British-born Islamic extremists, claimed the lives of 56 people and seriously injured hundreds more. Two weeks later, on July 21, 2005, another group of terrorists unsuccessfully attempted to attack London's mass transit system again. On July 11th, 2006 a series of seven bomb blasts against the Suburban Railway in Mumbai (formerly known as Bombay), capital city of the Indian state of Maharashtra and India's financial capital resulted in 207 lost lives and over 700 injured. 
   The recent attacks serve as a harsh reminder of mass transit and rail security vulnerabilities. Both mass transit and rail systems are public and used by millions of people daily. Because of their size, openness, and highly networked character, there are no obvious checkpoints, like those at airports, to inspect passengers and parcels. Passengers are strangers, promising attackers anonymity and easy escape. 
   And attacks on mass transit--the circulatory systems of urban areas--can cause widespread fear, severely disrupt economic activity, kill or injure large numbers of people, and alter our way of life. An attack on our freight rail, either the material being transported (such as hazardous materials, or vital commodities), or merely the system itself, could severely impact our national economy. 
   As a result, both mass transit and rail systems are attractive targets. Since September 11, 2001, according to the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, mass transit systems have been the target of more than 145 terrorist attacks. 
   Due to their existence in high-population, high-risk urban areas, mass transit systems are also inevitably affected by any terrorist attack that may occur within that jurisdiction--regardless of whether the transit system was the target of the attack. For example, during September 11, 2001, two of New York City's busiest transit stations were lost and considerable damage occurred to the tunnel structures, endangering hundreds of lives underground. Great care was required to evacuate passengers, locate and rescue trapped transit cars, and communicate instructions. The damage in New York City was so great that in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, Congress appropriated $1.8 billion to rebuild the subway infrastructure that was damaged in the attacks. I am hopeful that through this legislation we can prevent such attacks rather than face the tragic consequences of 9/11 again. 
   I refuse to sit idly by and allow another9/11 or Madrid, London, or Mumbai bombing to disrupt our Nation and its critical infrastructure--it is with that conviction that I seek to address these issues. The recent world events should serve as a wake-up call that we must do more to secure our transportation systems and we must act quickly and responsibly.I firmly 
   believe that the legislation before us today will take an important step in securing our transportation systems. 
   Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001 (ATSA), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is responsible for the security of all modes of transportation including rail and mass transit. TSA, however, has focused the majority of its resources and assets on aviation security in the past five years. 
   Congress, recognizing TSA's lack of progress in developing a security strategy for all modes of transportation, mandated the development of a National Strategy for Transportation Security in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (``9/11 Act''). This strategy, although due April 1, 2005, was not finalized by TSA until September 2005. Moreover, the document provided by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) did not meet the requirements set out by Congress, especially with regards to rail and mass transit security. Furthermore, subsequent congressionally mandated updates were also not met by TSA, resulting in the 9/11 Discourse Project giving the TSA a C- for its efforts. 
   TSA's failure to assume a leadership position on surface transportation security is plainly evident. It is time that we take action and leadership to help protect the more than 11.3 million passengers in 35 metropolitan areas and 22 states who use commuter, heavy, or light rail each weekday. There must be substantial penalties for those who do not follow the security plans, vulnerability assessments, and regulations set out in this legislation. 
   This bill provides the framework by which to create an ongoing and constant oversight process for our overlooked modes of transportation. Working with other federal government agencies, the Department of Homeland Security will monitor and assess the progress made by transportation providers and their workforces in implementing the security training mandated for transportation workers in this bill. I am also pleased that I was able to ensure in this bill that DHS would leverage its work in regards to security training with the safety training which has already been developed in universities and institutions of higher learning. 
   These institutions with existing transportation programs will also have an opportunity to participate in the National Transportation Center of Excellence Consortium. These programs have spent numerous years developing solutions for transportation vulnerabilities and this knowledge should be employed. I am especially pleased that minority serving institutions will play an active role in contributing to improving our transportation security. 
   Furthermore, neighborhood and local participation through programs such as Citizen Corps exercises is also critically important in facilitating security exercises. The millions of men and women who live next to railroad tracks and subway stations will be directly impacted if there is an attack, and they should be active and knowledgeable participants in preparing for such a tragic incident. 
   Furthermore, I am pleased that I was able to work with Chairman Thompson and Chairman Oberstar on the issue of rail security grants for security improvements to new start rail projects and systems. New start rail projects throughout the country will be more secure because we were able to incorporate language ensuring that rail security grants are used for security plans for new start rail projects which have not become operational yet. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also worked to ensure that this bill will authorize some much needed human resources to the Transportation Security Administration in the form of 600 additional rail security officers and inspectors. TSA will need additional manpower to meet the mandates set out in this legislation, such as approving of security plans and implementing training programs for covered transportation workers. The 100 additional officers I was able to secure will ensure that TSA is equipped to live up to its new mission. 
   This bill also authorizes more than $5.1 billion for the next four years, for rail, mass transit, and bus security. The funds called for in this bill should be based on risk and the priorities established by DHS. With this bill--for the first time--we will have comprehensive vulnerability assessments and security plans for rail, mass transit and buses. 
   I find it completely appalling that this Administration seems to be unwilling to act on rail and mass transit security until we are faced with another disaster. I shudder to think that if the Washington, DC or New York subway systems were attacked, and mass casualties resulted, that we would be thinking that more could have been done to prevent such a tragedy. We will be desperately trying to figure out how to prepare for a disaster that has already happened and holding hearing after hearing to find out where we dropped the ball. The time to prepare is now, and I am committed to securing our nation's rail and mass transit system expeditiously. We have been blessed thus far that our rail and public transportation systems have not been attacked. We should make our best efforts to ensure that we do not overlook this blessing. 
   From the terrorist attacks that have occurred around the world, we know that terrorists will  target our rail and public transportation systems. Despite this admonition, the agency created and funded by Congress to address the issue of transportation security has consistently dropped the ball when it comes to rail and public transportation. We cannot let the lessons of Madrid, London, and Mumbai go unheeded. For the sake of the millions of Americans who use our rail and mass transit systems every day to go to work, school, and visit friends and family, we have to take charge on this security risk. 
   What we are witnessing with the Transportation Security Administration is a lack of complete accountability. The Transportation Security Administration is not being held fully accountable for protecting our transportation systems and this must change. I acknowledge and appreciate the time that TSA Administrator Kip Hawley has taken to participate in this important hearing. However, we cannot tolerate the TSA's past inaction on this issue to continue for a moment longer. 
   While it is understandable that we would put focus on the safety of air travel, given the events of 9/11, what cannot be justified is the completely lopsided attention by the Department to aviation security at the expense of rail and mass transit security. I am pleased that this Congress and Chairman Thompson have decided to do what this Administration has thus far proved unwilling to do. That is, to provide a comprehensive framework to secure this nation's rail and public transportation systems. 
   We owe it to the public to safeguard the modes of transportation that allow them to carry on with their lives and drive this economy. Millions of men and women ride our nation's rail and public transportation systems every day; we owe it to them to ensure that they can do so safely and securely. I hope that through today's hearing and our continued efforts on the issue of rail and mass transit security, we can resolve the asymmetric way in which we treat aviation versus rail security and resolve the substantial threat posed by inadequate security on our rail and mass transit system. 
   I want to thank my colleagues for all of their hard work and dedication to these important issues, but I also want to emphasize that our job is not complete until we pass this bill and send it to the President. I eagerly look forward to the expeditious enactment of this critical legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. First of all, the gentleman knows that we look forward in our committee to work on this issue dealing with trucks. I would say that the distinguished gentleman from Tennessee's amendment does not push it off to trucks. It only wants to reduce chemicals. 
   I thank the gentleman for yielding.     
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. All time has expired on this amendment. 
   The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Cohen). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. 
   I believe this is a thoughtful amendment. The committee believes this adds to the legislation on the floor. We should look into security practices used by other countries that have experience with attacks on rail and mass transit systems. 
   This timeframe, the month of March, sadly commemorates the tragedy in Madrid. Certainly we are well aware of the London train bombings. Their insight, their recovery, their instructions would be very important. This study should include an evaluation of practices such as covert testing, security measures built into infrastructure and random searches of passengers and baggage. 
   When GAO testified before our committee, we learned that, while we share many rail security practices with other countries such as customer awareness, canine teams, limited passenger and baggage screening and technology upgrades, there were many practices that we haven't fully vetted. It makes sense to learn what we can from our neighbors who have already done a lot of work in this area. 
   I know that this is a tough challenge. This bill, I believe, answers a lot of the concerns about the massiveness of rail travel and passenger travel and all that goes into securing that particular travel. 
   Looking at what our neighbors are doing and what other countries are doing, Mr. Castle, I think it provides us an added road map for a complicated process which really impacts certain areas of our country more so than others. The Northeast corridor, of course, deserves our fullest measure of support when it comes to passenger travel for the numbers of systems that are here. 
   I ask my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I simply ask my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   I thank the gentleman for his thoughtful contribution to this bill.  
   I support Mr. CASTLE's amendment. 
   We should look into security practices used by other countries that have experience with terrorist attacks on rail and mass transits systems. 
   This study should include an evaluation of practices such as covert testing, security measures built into infrastructure, and random searches of passengers and baggage. 
   When GAO testified before our committee, we learned that while we share many rail security practices with other countries, such as customer awareness, canine teams, limited passenger and baggage screening, and technology upgrades, there were many practices that we haven't fully vetted. 
   It makes sense to learn what we can from our neighbors who have already done a lot of work in this area. 
   I ask that my colleagues support this amendment.  
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Delaware (Mr. Castle). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, this is a baffling, puzzling amendment. I ask the question of my colleagues, what is one life worth? What is one life worth that travels along the Nation's transit corridors, the intense Northeast corridor that deals with Amtrak long distance routes, 2 million people? 
   The Sessions amendment would prohibit any grant funds appropriated pursuant to this Act to be used by Amtrak for making necessary safety or security improvements along 10 Amtrak routes, with the exceptions of some of those in some of the more intense areas of New York, Baltimore and Union Station. Many of these routes provide central transportation services to rural areas. Some of them enabled Amtrak to bring water and food to the people of New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina and to hurricane victims. 
   The question is, what is one life worth that is using this system? What is our responsibility as Members of the United States Congress and the Homeland Security Committee? 
   I believe this is both a bad amendment but a puzzling amendment, and I would ask my colleagues to oppose this amendment so that we can truly have a rail security bill that secures all of the transit system that needs that coverage. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me just simply say to the gentleman, so that I will clarify any suggestion of my confusion, we have 3.5 million passengers who are riding Amtrak. One of the routes the gentleman wants to eliminate is from Texas to California. I believe the gentleman is from Texas. The idea is, Mr. Chairman, to make sure we have a system that is integrated, safe; and there are security provisions to make the network safe, the network that travels to the east coast, the network that travels to California, the network that travels to the Northwest. 
   That is the idea of the rail bill, to ensure that we now have coverage and the opportunity for security where we previously did not, to avoid London and to avoid Madrid. 
   It is now my pleasure to be able to yield to the distinguished chairman of the Transportation Committee, Mr. Oberstar, for such time as he might consume.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I will close by simply saying that we have asked the question and it has been answered: What is one life worth? 
   Amtrak is part of a system. You break the security of one part of the system, Mr. Chairman, you break the security of the entire system. This amendment is important for breaking that. It is not important for making this bill work. 
   I ask my colleagues to oppose the Sessions amendment so that the network of Amtrak will have a secure and safe system for those that travel on it. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Sessions). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, again, let me simply say that we are speaking about an existing program. We know that throughout our security system the FBI, Customs and Border Protection, we use bomb-sniffing dogs. And this is a program that already exists. It strikes the increase in TSA's, Transportation Security Administration's, already-existing program, domestic canine breeding program that is called for in this bill. 
   Interestingly enough, this was added by Mr. Rogers, Mike Rogers of our committee, of Alabama. This was added in the markup because he is the ranking member on our Management and Personnel Subcommittee. He understands the need for these canines. It was accepted in a spirit of bipartisanship. 
   The TSA canine teams are a key part of the equation in keeping our traveling public secure, and we all support expanding this program. 
   I ask one person in here, when they see dogs coming to be part of the security team, how many people want to reject that canine team that is very effective in determining whether something heinous and horrific is going to act, even on this very campus in the United States Congress. 
   I ask my colleagues to oppose the amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, to close, let me just thank Mr. Rogers for the underlying language and make the point again that this is a question of security and to contract out, privatize the breeding of these dogs and/or to use foreign-bred dogs may raise a question in terms of source, resource, and utilization. 
   This is good language in this bill that allows TSA to continue its program, particularly since we are expanding rail security and therefore needing the increase in the canine breed. 
   I would ask my colleague to defeat the Flake amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake). 
   The amendment was rejected. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I strongly oppose this amendment striking the bus security grant provided in this bill. 
   The underlying jurisdiction of this particular subcommittee and Homeland Security includes responsibility of over-the-road buses. We plan to look even more extensively at the necessary security requirements of making sure that people who travel in bus transportation likewise deserve the coverage and security that we can provide. More people ride over-the-road buses and more communities and destinations are served by those buses than any other form of intercity passenger transportation. 
   Jitney-type buses are not the only forms of buses, but they are part of the bus transportation of this country. Buses and bus terminals have been the targets of suicide bombers in countries like Iraq, Israel, Pakistan, and elsewhere in the world. The question for the Homeland Security Department and the Homeland Security Committee is to be preventative in front of the tragedy, not behind it. This legislation is to get us in front, to look at areas that we have not looked at before. 
   Worldwide over the last 80 years, 47 percent of surface transportation terrorist attacks have involved buses. We have seen the horrific tragedy. We have seen the loss of lives, the loss of lives of children. We must invest the money needed to protect bus passengers; and I believe the gentleman's amendment may be well-intended but, frankly, underestimates the need of security measures for buses and undermines the bill. 
   I would ask my colleagues to oppose this amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me close, Mr. Chairman. 
   Mr. Flake has one philosophy about security, and that is narrow and let us not move forward. The underlying bill makes a whole new statement to America, that we are planning on reviewing those areas that are failing in security and improve them. 
   Has anyone heard of the eighth grade school bus trip, where children fill up a long-distance bus going somewhere that you hope your children will return from?     
   That is what we are trying to improve, the tragedy that may occur when people are using over-the-road buses. This is what this program is. It is not a program of waste; it is based on risk. As well, we are holding TSA accountable in the utilization of funds. 
   This is a bad amendment that undermines the new idea, which is to make sure that all aspects of America's security are both reviewed and provided resources so we can do the right thing and move forward with the right program that is fiscally responsible, but also provides the security necessary. 
   This amendment undermines the underlying bill and certainly takes away the necessary security for over-the-road buses. I ask my colleagues to oppose this amendment.  
   I strongly oppose this amendment striking the bus security grants provided in this bill. 
   More people ride over-the-road buses, and more communities and destinations are served by those buses, than any other form of intercity passenger transportation. 
   Buses and bus terminals have been the targets of suicide bombers in Iraq, Israel, Pakistan and elsewhere in the world. 
   Worldwide, over the last 80 years, 47% of surface transportation terrorist attacks have involved buses. 
   We must invest the money needed to protect bus passengers. 
   I encourage my colleagues to vote against this amendment.  
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. All time has expired on this amendment. 
   The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RAIL AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, we support the amendment offered by the gentleman from Massachusetts. 
   Training is a critical component of my bill. 
   We specifically added training language to the bill because I knew that our Nation's rail, public transportation and over-the-road bus employees were not receiving the necessary security training. 
   Representative Lynch's amendment goes one step further--it mandates a survey of the satisfaction of workers regarding the effectiveness and adequacy of the training. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The gentleman's time has expired. 
   The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Lynch). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. RES. 78, PERMITTING DELEGATES AND THE RESIDENT COMMISSIONER TO CAST VOTES IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Might I say, Mr. Speaker, it is a joy to see you in the chair, and I thank the member of the majority Rules Committee and the Rules Committee and a number of my colleagues. 
   And might I just remind my colleagues that we had some 10 years for the Members on the other side of the aisle to make good on a constitutional promise. 
   It should be noted that this very rule and its format has been affirmed on constitutional grounds. It was utilized by majority vote in the 103th Congress without one incident except three revotes. 
   The idea and concept is to again inform America that we believe in one vote, one person. I know historically the complete insult to being considered less than one vote. Slaves were characterized historically as less than one person. And so this particular legislation is a making of the whole of individuals who pay taxes, Federal taxes, Social Security, Medicare taxes, and individuals who we know, Mr. Speaker, have been on the front lines of Iraq, Afghanistan, and every single war. 
   And so to the American Samoa, to the District of Columbia, to the Virgin Islands, and to the District of Columbia along with Puerto Rico and the Commissioner, the argument for self-rule or however Puerto Rico will ultimately be designed is not the argument here today. The argument here today is to allow the constituents, some 4.4 million, represented by Commissioners and Delegates to have a constitutional right to vote. There is no way that this Congress, this Democratic Congress under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and the leadership team, can reject the right for Americans to vote or those who are in many instances citizens. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, I support the rule and the underlying bill, and would ask us to uphold the Constitution by voting today to allow those who have the right to vote to express their vote.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 78, which would amend the rules of the House of Representatives to permit Delegates from the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico to cast votes in the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union. 
   I support H.R. 78 because restoring to the Delegates and the Resident Commissioner the right to vote in the Committee of the Whole is an act of simple justice long overdue. Indeed, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 78 merely restores the practice that prevailed in this House during the 103rd Congress. When the Republicans won control of this chamber in 1994, one of their first acts was to strip elected Delegates and the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico of their right to vote in the Committee of the Whole. 
   Let me point out at the outset, Mr. Speaker, that the rule we seek to restore today was rescinded by the Republican controlled 104th Congress, and prohibited by each succeeding Congress through the 110th not because the rule is unconstitutional or illegal but because for apparently partisan reasons. Four of the five Members directly affected by the rule are members of the Democratic Caucus. 
   But the fact is, Mr. Speaker, the authority of this House to confer voting rights in the Committee of the Whole upon elected Delegates and the Resident Commissioner of Puerto has been squarely addressed and upheld by the Federal courts. 
   When the House adopted a similar rule during the 103d Congress, Republican opponents immediately brought action in federal court challenging the constitutionality of the rule on the ground that it vested legislative power in persons who were not elected to represent citizens of any of the several States. In March 1993, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia upheld the rules change on the ground that the Delegate votes was structured so that Delegate votes in the Committee of the Whole were symbolic in nature and thus did not affect the final ultimate outcome of any vote. Michaels v. Anderson, 817 F. Supp. 126 (D.D.C. 1993), aff'd, 109 F.3d 623 (1994). For this reason, the court held that the rule did not unconstitutionally confer legislative power upon Delegates. 
   In affirming the district court, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that the additional authority conferred on Delegates by the rule change was ``largely symbolic'' and ``not significantly greater than that which they enjoy serving and voting on the standing committees.'' Id. Nor was the court persuaded by the argument raised by opponents below that the rule change had the symbolic effect of granting Delegates higher status and greater prestige in their home districts. In rejecting the claim, the court noted that because of the savings clause contained in the rule, the claimed harm was ``unproven, remote, and speculative'' and of no unconstitutional moment. Simply put, the court held that the rule ``was not unconstitutional as the delegation of an improper exercise of legislative power.'' 
   Moreover, Mr. Speaker, the Supreme Court has long held and it is now settled that the Congress has broad authority to take action with respect to the territories and the District of Columbia. See Sere & Laralde v. Pilot, 10 U.S. 332, 336-37 (1810); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S. 15, 44 (1885); Binns v. U.S., 194 U.S. 486 (1885). 
   Mr. Speaker, our Nation's Capital of the District of Columbia, the United States territories of Puerto Rico, Guam, 
   American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands, all play an important role in this great Nation. They serve in our military. They are fighting for us right now in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are making and have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect and defend this Nation. 
   Mr. Speaker, more than 30,000 residents of Guam are on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States. That is nearly 20 percent of the population of the territory. No other congressional district or State comes close to matching this measure of devotion. Approximately 2,500 soldiers from the District of Columbia and the territories are currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan today. And American Samoa has the highest per capita rate of any State or territory in the Iraq war. The Iraq war  death rate per 1 million people in the population is almost as high for American Samoa as for the 10 highest States combined. 
   Sadly also, Mr. Speaker, the Nation lost 19 brave soldiers this past Saturday when the helicopter they were riding was shot down by insurgents. Two of the heroes who made this supreme sacrifice for their country were residents of the Virgin Islands. 
   Mr. Speaker, if a person can be called upon to pay Federal taxes and serve in the Armed Forces of the United States, then he or she should at least have the opportunity to vote for a Representative who could at least cast a symbolic vote in this Chamber on critical matters facing our Nation--issues like war and peace, equality and justice. 
   Mr. Speaker, taxation without representation is tyranny. In the aggregate, nearly 5 million persons residing in the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Puerto Rico are wrongly, and I say unconscionably, being denied a vote--and therefore denied a voice--in the most important legislative body in the world and making a mockery of our commitment to democracy and equal justice. 
   As a supporter of freedom, democracy, and equality, I believe that it is long overdue for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have a Representative in Congress who can vote on the vital legislation considered in this body. 
   It is wrong, Mr. Speaker, that the citizens of the District of Columbia, who after all pay taxes to the United States, serve in the Armed Forces, and are subject to the laws and jurisdiction of the United States, are denied a vote in the body that imposes those taxes, raises and maintains the Armed Forces, and makes the laws that each of us must obey. 
   License plates in the District of Columbia remind us of their ongoing struggle for a proper voice in this Federal Government, reading: ``Taxation without representation.'' The people in Boston felt so strongly about this in 1775 that they rebelled in Boston Harbor, launching the ``Boston Tea Party.'' 
   This principle is no less vital today. We must not deny the territories of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands the right to have a vote in Congress. Doing so denies their important relationships with our Nation and contributions to our economy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. HOYER, for introducing H. Res. 78, which honors and vindicates the residents of the District of Columbia and the territories. Not only do we appreciate their military service and tax receipts, we value their views and opinion in the halls of Congress. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 78. But let us not stop there. I hope all Members will support H.R. 328, the D.C. Fair and Equal Voting Rights Act, which will give full voting rights in the House to the nearly 600,000 citizens of the District of Columbia.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank my distinguished colleague from Cleveland, Ohio, the chairwoman of the Ethics Committee, and as well the first African American woman, only African American woman on the Ways and Means Committee. These two distinctive positions are so important, one, for the health of this body, the Ethics Committee, and two, for the great city that she represents. And I might compete with her, she has the Cleveland Clinic; I have the Texas Medical Center. And I know that we have had the opportunity to work with each other, and I want to thank her for what I think is an enormously important Special Order. 
   I want to begin, as many of my colleagues have begun, and I want to acknowledge the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Kilpatrick, for the importance of putting a face on the issue of disparities in health care. 
   In doing that, I'm reminded of the language in the beginning of the Constitution that the Founding Fathers organized to create a more perfect Union. But as they struck out on faith to establish this fledgling United States of America, only 13 colonies, feeling the redcoats breathing down their backs, afraid that at any moment this very fragile government might be toppled, they had enough courage to declare some words that I believe, if this Congress would use it as a moral compass, these issues of Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES would be very clear, and those are the words of the Declaration of Independence that said we all are created equal with certain inalienable rights; the right to pursue life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. We are all created equal with certain inalienable rights; the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
   Clearly, health care is intimately involved in life and the pursuit of happiness. And so in actuality, the Founding Fathers put down a marker of what kind of Nation they wanted this to be. Tragically, over the last years, when our good friends were involved, many of the serious issues of health care were diminished in terms of care and funding. And so it is important that we stand here tonight to be able to lay down the challenge and the charge that we are here to fix it up. We are here to make it right. We are here to correct some of the ills, governmental ills, budgetary ills that have caused health care to be diminished. 
   And let me cite some important statistics that represent the districts of individuals in this body coming from the south, coming from the midwest, coming from the far west, next to Texas, and parts of the mountain area. 
   The cost of the war in one district is costing $1 million. And out of that waste of money in the Iraq war, we would be able to provide people with health care: 336,000 adults and 527,000 children, plus, with health care. 
   Another district, the war is costing them $1.2 million, plus. We would be able to provide 420,000 people with health care if that war was ended, 758,000 children. 
   Another district, the war is costing them $1.1 million--755,000 people would be able to have health care and 633,000 children. Another district, $812,000 it's costing them, and we would be able to provide 310,000 adults with health care, and children, 502,000. 
   So, we can already see that we would be able to provide thousands, hundreds of thousands of Americans with health care and hundreds of thousands of children with health care if we, first of all, brought our troops home and ended the Iraq war. 
   Now, why should we be concerned with that? And the Congressional Black Caucus has gone on the record on questions of disparities in health care. And I might say that this whole issue of disparities is not just an issue of race; it's an issue of dealing with economics. It is the kind of health care that poor people are able to manage to get versus those who are covered, who have means. Some people have means where they pay outright for the care. The Texas Medical Center, for example, has long-time hosted international patients who outright pay for good care. We don't have that luxury here in the United States for many of those who are struggling. 
   And I might give you just a real-life example, Mr. Speaker, having left my home district and had the challenge and the desire to visit constituents who were ailing. They are now surviving because they happen to be individuals who had the care and the sophistication of family members who could get them to a spot that would, in fact, determine what was the final need of their care. Mr. Speaker, they had a disastrous cancerous organ that was not initially found, and they could have died. But because they had the means, they were able to go through test after test, and one expensive test that is rarely given, an MRI, was able to find that cancerous organ, their life has been saved. Another person with a severe injury or severe disease was able to be cared for and is in the best of care because of means. They live today. But that is not the case in the question of disparities on economics, what you make, and also on race. 
   I'm very glad to be part of the CBC effort and Health Task Force to focus on ensuring that the Ryan White CARE Act is passed with language that emphasizes minority HIV organizations. 
   I believe in fixing health care disparities on the ground. I have organized a series of testing activities or actions to engage the community in being tested. Our first effort with a church, 245 persons were tested. And our message is that HIV testing is not a one-shot deal. Just recently, a good friend, Representative Borris 
   Miles, was able to get 7,000, or thousands of persons tested, possibly 7,000 persons, for HIV. We are going to launch another effort of testing and a campaign that says ``HIV testing is not a one-shot deal.'' 
   I am a strong supporter of believing in the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006. For the time that I have been here, I have emphasized that we have not enough community-based health clinics that were privately owned in neighborhoods accessible to grandmothers and young mothers with children. And we have worked hard to ensure that more community health centers come to Houston, Texas. 
   I'm proud that in my own congressional district we've opened one in Fifth Ward. We've opened two that are under the auspices of the Martin Luther King Community Center that I worked with and kept their doors open with a $400,000 grant from HHS in the early years of my congressional career. This is a stopgap to the disparities in health care, allowing those in the community to have immediate access to health care. 
   Then, of course, one of the largest, if I might use the term, Mr. Speaker, ``elephants'' in the room, is the question of obesity in America. As the cochair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, we have worked on the issue of obesity in children. I was very proud to join Congressman DONALD PAYNE for a very thoughtful, forward-thinking session on obesity in New Jersey, and providing remarks dealing with the question of obesity in our children. And it is a disparity in health care as it relates to Hispanic and African American children who are victimized, if you will, in large numbers by the lack of nutritious food that generates an overweight child. That turns into hypertension as an adult, type II diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, gallbladder disease, asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnea, and other respiratory diseases. 
   There are also increases in overweight among children and teens. For  children age 2 to 5, the prevalence of overweight increased from 5 percent to 13 percent; 6 to 11 years, prevalence increased from 6.5 percent to 18.8 percent; and for age 12 to 19 years, 5 percent to 17.4 percent. 
   We're working to ensure in the agricultural reauthorization bill that's coming forward that school lunches and school breakfasts are nutritious. That has to be for those children who are poor and are dependent upon those meals as sometimes their only meal. 
   I passed legislation that involved the creation of an Office of Minority Populations that still stands today, and the idea is to keep the question of disparities in health care before Health and Human Services regardless of who the Secretary is. We can do better in this Congress. 
   And there are issues dealing with our veterans. I'm very pleased that my VISTA bill was marked up in the veterans which provides added resources for visually impaired veterans in order to assist them in the care of those who are impaired by their recent, if you will, deployment to Iraq and those who are veterans who have suffered injury or have lost their sight. 
   But we come now to the issue of the SCHIP, which is in the process of being reauthorized. And the difficulty, of course, is that we need to emphasize the crucialness of SCHIP in the Nation and in our States. I believe that the work of the Congressional Black Caucus and all of us in our respective States is a telling answer to health care for children who are at a certain economic level. 
   Tragically, the State of Texas, after the passage of the 1997 budget resolution which created SCHIP, was one of those States that turned back $400 million because they could not enroll the children. As we move forward, I want to make sure that we move forward on the package that will cover 6 million children. I would like to see us go up to 9 million, but I think we need to look at process. I hope that we do not privatize and make this a market-based program so that people can stuff their pockets with money.     
   This should be a program that goes directly to these families. Any State that fails to enroll should be penalized by the State's having to refund their own tax dollars, not the money sent for the children. Let us not penalize the children, but let us cause those States to pay fines for their inertia and their inability to enroll these children. I hope that we will have that kind of reform. 
   Let me close by suggesting that we have an enormous road to take on health care. I am gratified that I hear more African Americans and Hispanics and others of a certain economic level who are prone to these disparities in health care talking about eating right, talking about an intake of less red meat. For those who are on the ranches, and I am from Texas, a good steak is a good thing to have. But to focus on vegetables, and some people have become vegetarians and are drinking water. These are elements that can encourage good health care. 
   For those of us who have our schedule here in Washington, D.C., a little walking, a little exercise would be good as well. We should probably look at ourselves in the mirror and try to improve our own health status. We have the capability and capacity if and when some health matter would come to our attention, that is a personal matter, but we must speak for the millions of Americans, 44 million, that are uninsured, that do not have access to health care. I do believe that it is time to move for universal access to health care. 
   So as we move in the 110th Congress and complete this session, I would say to all of my colleagues, be reminded of the Declaration of Independence; we all are created equal with certain inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Health care has to be a constitutional issue and a right for Americans. 
   Certainly for the least of those we must stand ready to provide them with a strong and forceful statement and action on health care in America. We should have the SCHIP passed without hindrance and without a market-based approach. We should pass universal access to health care so that all Americans, all Americans, can have the ability to be blessed with the virtues of the pursuit of happiness and have good health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me thank my colleague for yielding. Might I also suggest that we have our marching orders at this point, that we will not take a ``no'' on passage of the SCHIP out of this House. We want to see universal access to health care come to the floor. 
   On the disparity question, I am looking forward to the Congressional Black Caucus and the Tri-Caucus health disparity bill being made in regular order and being brought to this floor as soon as possible. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must save lives. We must.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Special Order to recognize the importance of closing the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country. It is crucial that we continue to bring awareness to the many health concerns facing minority communities and to acknowledge that we need to find solutions to address these concerns. My colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I understand the very difficult challenges facing us in the form of huge health disparities among our community and other minority communities. We will continue to seek solutions to those challenges. It is imperative for us to improve the prospects for living long and healthy lives and fostering an ethic of wellness in African-American and other minority communities. I wish to pay special tribute to my colleague, Congresswoman Donna Christensen, the Chair of the CBC Health Braintrust, for leading the Congressional Black Caucus in its efforts to bring attention to the health challenges facing minority communities. I thank all of my CBC colleagues who have been toiling in the vineyards for years developing effective public policies and securing the resources needed to eradicate racial and gender disparities in health and wellness. 
   Let me focus these brief remarks on what I believe are three of the greatest impediments to the health and wellness of the African-American community and other minority communities. The first challenge is to provide everyone access to healthcare. This includes supporting the reauthorization and expansion of the State Children's Heath Insurance Program (SCHIP) so that all of our children who need health insurance will receive it. The second challenge is combating the scourge of HIV/AIDS. The third challenge is to reverse the dangerous trend of increasing obesity in juveniles and young adults. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (REQUIRING REPORT ON EFFORTS TO BRING TO JUSTICE PALESTINIAN TERRORISTS WHO KILLED JOHN BRANCHIZIO, MARK PARSON, AND JOHN MARIN LINDE -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2293, which requires the Secretary of the State to submit to Congress a report on efforts to bring to justice the Palestinian terrorists who killed John Branchizio, Mark Parson, and John Marin Linde. This bill requires the Secretary of State to submit a report--classified, if necessary--within 30 days and every 120 days thereafter to the appropriate committees until the attackers have been brought to justice. 
   The bill also warns of potential restrictions on privileges extended to the Palestinian Authority by our government in the case of continued noncompliance, although I hope it will never come to that. 
   I commend my colleague Mr. ACKERMAN of New York for introducing this important measure. This resolution lends the full support of the United States Congress to bringing to justice the Palestinian terrorists who murdered three contractors providing security to American diplomatic personnel in Gaza on October 15, 2003. The Palestinian terrorists who killed John Branchizio, Mark Parson, and John Marin Linde have still not been brought to justice. 
   John Branchizio, Mark Parson, and John Marin Linde were slain by terrorists who assaulted a clearly marked convoy of American diplomats. Ironically, the diplomats were on a mission to help the Palestinians by identifying Gazan candidates for the Fulbright exchange program. 
   In February 2005, Palestinian Authority President, Mahmoud Abbas, assured Secretary of State Rice that the perpetrators would be brought to justice. Further, senior Palestinian officials asserted that the Palestinian Authority knew the identities of the assailants. Yet inexplicably, these terrorists have not been named; they have not been questioned; and they have not been arrested, charged, prosecuted, and punished. No way is that justice. Justice delayed is justice denied. 
   It is imperative that the legitimate leaders of the Palestinian Authority show their willingness to confront the scourge of terrorism if they are to be considered a reliable partner for peace. 
   Madam Speaker, I strongly support this piece of legislation, and I ask that my colleagues do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMENDING THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO FOR ENACTMENT OF A LAW TO IMPROVE THE STATUS OF MARRIED WOMEN -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 294, commending the Kingdom of Lesotho, on the occasion of International Women's Day, for the enactment of a law to improve the status of married women and ensure the access of married women to property rights. 
   Let my first begin by thanking my distinguished colleague on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of its subcommittee on Africa and the Global Health, Congresswoman WATSON, for recognizing this issue and introducing this vital resolution. It is important that we recognize and commend the role and the efforts that the Government of Lesotho has taken to further gender equity. International Women's Day, observed on March 8, 2007, calls for people to recognize the accomplishments of women, while reaffirming their commitment to continue the struggle for equality, justice, and peace. This is a milestone that demands worldwide recognition, and I applaud our United States Congress for taking this role. 
   The Kingdom of Lesotho is a parliamentary constitutional monarchy that has been an independent country since 1966. Often referred to as the ``Kingdom in the Sky,'' Lesotho was a strong public supporter of ending apartheid in South Africa, and was known for granting political asylum to numerous refugees during that era. Lesotho is a low-income country with a gross national income per capita of $960, and 50 percent of its people live below the poverty line. However, its Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to ruling justly, investing in its people, ensuring economic freedom, as well as controlling corruption. 
   Madam Speaker, in the Kingdom of Lesotho, a married woman would historically be considered a legal minor during the lifetime of her husband. Such status would severely restrict her economic activities, forbid her from entering into legally binding contracts without her husband's consent, and hamper her ability to have standing in civil court. As early as 1992, legislation aimed at elevating the legal status of married women and providing property and inheritance rights to women in Lesotho was introduced. Since then, women's groups, nongovernmental organizations, the Federation of Women Lawyers, Lesotho Government officials, and many others have continually pushed for the passage of legislations which would strengthen their rights. 
   As a strong advocate of women's rights, it has continually been my role to denounce human rights violations against women, as  well as fight for gender equity. I must certainly agree with the Chief Executive Officer of the MCC, who stated that ``gender inequality is a constraint on economic growth and poverty reduction and is related to the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, and that inattention to issues of gender inequality could undermine the potential impact of the Compact proposed to be entered into between the MCC and the Government of Lesotho.'' 
   Madam Speaker, the MCC is currently implementing a new gender policy to integrate gender into all phases of the development and implementation of the Compact between the MCC and the Government of Lesotho. It is now the responsibility of the United States House of Representatives to support the goals of Lesotho's International Women's Day, commend them on their strong commitment to improving gender equity, as well as applaud their enactment of the Legal Capacity of Married Persons Act. 
   Lesotho's actions aimed at guaranteeing equity for women under the law ought to serve as a model for many other African nations, where women have been subjected to discriminatory laws in the areas of civil, economic, and property rights. This resolution will certainly go a long way in reducing the risk of women and their children falling into extreme poverty, eventually reducing their risk of exposure to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. I ask my colleagues to support this measure. Let us continue to encourage the Kingdom of Lesotho in its ongoing efforts to ensure gender equity. Let us commend the Millennium Challenge Corporation for developing and implementing policies to advance gender equity. 
   I thank you once again, Congresswoman WATSON, for your efforts in introducing this piece of legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WE NEED TO SUPPORT PAKISTAN -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, our ally Pakistan is facing a difficult challenge. For those of us who believe that the region that includes Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan is one of our most strategic and Pakistan one of our most important, we want free elections and human rights. But now, we can see the light. 
   Pakistan is losing thousands of Pakistani troops into the region between Afghanistan and Pakistan in order to maintain the protection against the NATO troops. It is imperative that we engage Pakistan, support Pakistan and help them as they begin to try and resolve the crisis of Taliban. 
   Many criticize the agreement, but now we can see what happens when that agreement is declared dead by the Taliban. It is important that we work with Pakistan, see the light, stop the accusations and sit down to resolve the best, a safe and secure manner for the U.S. troops, the NATO troops and the Pakistani troops. 
   The alliance and friendship between the United States and Pakistan is important. We must find ways to accommodate that friendship to make it work for Pakistan and the United States and the United States military and the Pakistani Army. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PASSPORT BACKLOG REDUCTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 966, the Passport Backlog Reduction Act of 2007. We are all very concerned by the extreme backlog in the passport system, and even more so by the apparent lack of adequate preparation that has led to the severe delays that our constituents are now experiencing. I would like to thank Senator Schumer for introducing this important legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, we all recognize the need to protect our Nation and to secure our borders. As a senior member of the Committee on Homeland Security, this has long been a priority for me, and I appreciate the need to continually review and update the policies we use to permit entry into the United States. However, I believe that the current delays are far in excess of what is excusable. 
   I have witnessed the suffering of those waiting to receive passports first I hand in Houston, where my office shares a building with the passport agency. I have spoken with many of the countless Americans who have carefully planned and saved money for family vacations, only to lose the money spent on plane tickets and hotel rooms when they are unable to procure passports. Families in which only one of many children receives a passport in time for travel. U.S. citizens desperate to travel overseas to see ailing relatives. Businessmen and women who are unable to complete necessary overseas travel while waiting to receive their documents. These individuals and families lined up on the streets 
   of Houston are indicative of the huge numbers of Americans who are suffering as a result of the U.S. Government's failure to adequately prepare for the swell in passport demands. 
   I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the men and women in the Houston field office, who have worked tirelessly to ensure that as many Americans as possible receive the necessary travel documents. Washington has let them down by failing to provide them with the adequate resources and personnel to successfully do their job, and it has failed the American people. This is a situation that demands leadership from the top. 
   The Department of State Crisis Response Act of 2007 is an important first step toward alleviating the massive passport backlog that has developed since the recent implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, or WHTI. It allows the State Department to employ retired Foreign Service officers to process passport applications. Many Foreign Service retirees already possess the necessary training and security clearance for these functions, and could therefore be rapidly deployed to meet the ongoing crisis. 
   Under the provisions of this act, Foreign Service retirees can work without forgoing pension payments, provided that they either provide assistance to consular posts with a substantial backlog of visa applications, or they provide assistance in meeting the passport backlog resulting from the WHTI. 
   I firmly believe we must do all in our power to keep the American people, and our Nation itself, safe. This includes constantly reviewing and, as need be, revising our entrance policies. However, I also believe that we owe it to the American taxpayers to do everything that we can to allow free travel. We must work to ensure that such a serious problem does not occur in the future, while also working to immediately address the ongoing passport backlog. I strongly support this legislation, which is an important first step toward alleviating the existing passport delays, and I would like to encourage my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank both Chairman Oberstar and of course Chairman Thompson and Subcommittee Chair Elijah Cummings on this Coast Guard bill that all of us have worked on. As the Chair of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of Homeland Security, I can assure you that the idea of overcoming the administration's veto on the question of LNG security is going to be an important stand today as we vote for this bill.     
   The language that speaks to the LNG security is a fair statement. It gives the Coast Guard flexibility. It allows them to make an assessment, and it is the right thing to do. Coming from the City of Houston, with a very large port, I understand the need to protect the surrounding communities and the importance of LNG security. 
   In addition, I am grateful that I have an amendment going forward that will help expedite the TWIC card for so many who have not yet gone through the process, to make an assessment by the Coast Guard of the necessity of more resources, of keeping the facility open 24 hours a day and making sure that this TWIC process goes in order to secure those. 
   I am also grateful that we have increased the Coast Guard overall to 47,000 and that the underlying bill refocuses on the value of the Coast Guard, both in terms of their standard duties, but also the new enhanced duty for security. 
   I hope that as we move TSA administrative law judges, however, that we will find a way to ensure that TSA is not impacted negatively and that we will have oversight to ensure that this process will continue to work. 
   Again, Mr. Chairman, this is an important legislative initiative. This again is the Homeland Security Committee and the Transportation Committee and the two chairpersons and committee members working harmoniously together, recognizing that the bottom line of what we do on the floor today and what we do for the American people is to ensure their security. We have done that today. 
   I ask my colleagues to enthusiastically vote for this legislation.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Minnesota, Representative Oberstar. This important legislation will provide our Nation's Coast Guard with the resources it needs in order to successfully execute all its missions. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I believe protecting our Nation by air, land, and sea to be critical to our national security interests. This bill, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007, sets forth various provisions that will be beneficial to our maritime interests, and consequently to our national security. Included in the provisions are the establishments of grants for international maritime organizations, the establishment of the Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee, and codified various provisions relating to Coast Guard personnel matters. 
   For some years now, I have been concerned about the diversion of Coast Guard resources from their historic missions of search and rescue and marine safety, to homeland security missions. Since the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, and the Coast Guard's inclusion in the Department, one of the greatest challenges has been ensuring that the funds that the Coast Guard have traditionally received in order to perform their duties remain intact so that they can fulfill the responsibilities that American citizens rely on them to perform, namely ensuring the safety of our Nation's seas, lakes, rivers, and ports. 
   Mr. Chairman, we have to ensure that the Coast Guard will get their full funding which is absolutely necessary to carry out their responsibilities, and that is precisely what this legislation does. This act authorizes appropriations for FY2008 for the Coast Guard. Furthermore, this act also authorizes the FY2008 levels of Coast Guard active duty military personnel and average military training student loans, allowing for sufficient human resources for the Coast Guard to achieve its designated goals. This bill explicitly authorizes end-strength by 1,500 members to 47,000 and increasing Coast Guard funding to $8.4 billion which has not been done since the 1970s. 
   The act also includes provisions regarding shipping and navigation, vessel size limits, maritime drug law enforcement, fishing vessel safety, liability limits for natural gas deepwater ports, claims against the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, dry bulk cargo rescue, merchant manner matter, and security. 
   Mr. Chairman, I was pleased to work with Chairman Thompson and offer an amendment during our Homeland Security Committee markup to this important legislation, which I felt improved the bill. My amendment mandated the creation of a strategic plan to utilize assistance programs to assist ports and facilities that are found by the Secretary not to maintain effective anti-terrorism measures. I am also offering an amendment on the House floor today calling on the Secretary of Homeland Security to examine the challenges and delays faced by transportation workers seeking to obtain TWIC cards at enrollment sites and mandates the development of timelines and benchmarks for implementing the findings of this assessment. 
   Mr. Chairman, every year, 95 percent of the goods coming into the United States arrive at our Nation's seaports. These goods are shipped from ports around the world, some from developed countries and others from developing countries. I am particularly 
   concerned about ports in developing countries. Developing countries have limited resources which means their ability to maintain effective anti-terrorism measures is limited. 
   We cannot allow terrorists to exploit this limitation. Rather, we should work with developing countries and others to build up their anti-terrorism measures. This assistance will benefit all of us. The developing countries will gain the support they need, and we will close a potential gap in our own supply chain. Every gap we close is one less gap that can be exploited by terrorists. I am pleased that this bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop a strategic plan to utilize existing assistance programs to assist foreign ports and facilities that are found by the Secretary not to maintain effective anti-terrorism measured. This bill furthermore authorizes the Coast Guard to lend, lease, and donate equipment and provide technical training to non-compliant foreign ports or facilities. The multiple layers of security enhancement authorized in this legislation will minimize the ability of terrorists to target to maritime commerce and negatively impact the global supply chain. 
   I am pleased that the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007 includes specific provisions relating to Minority Serving Institutions (MSls). Within this legislation, MSls are defined as a historically Black college or university, a Hispanic serving institution, a Tribal College or University, a Predominantly Black institution, or a Native American-serving institution. Section 901 of this important legislation states that the Commandant shall establish a management internship program for students at MSls, enabling them to intern at Coast Guard headquarters or Coast Guard regional offices in an effort to support the development of civilian, career-midlevel, and senior managers for the service. This legislation furthermore instructs the Coast Guard to work with the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, the Hispanic Association of Colleges  and Universities, and the American Indian Higher Education Consortium to create this internship program and authorizes $2 million to be appropriated to this program. 
   Mr. Chairman, I have long stressed the importance of including this Nation's MSIs in the effort to secure our Nation. Section 903 of this legislation states that the Commandant shall establish Guard. Laboratory of Excellence-MSI a Coast Cooperative Technology Program at three minority serving institutions to focus on priority security areas for the Coast Guard, such as global maritime surveillance, resilience, and recovery. It also calls on the Commandant to encourage collaboration among the minority serving institutions selected to participate in the cooperative technology program and institutions of higher education with institutional research and academic program resources and experience. These and other measures included within this bill are absolutely imperative as the Office of Workforce Planning has recently revealed that only 5 percent of the officer corps is African American and only 12 percent of the officer 
   corps is comprised of ethnic minorities, while in the last 3 years the numbers of minority ascensions have actually decreased. 
   The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007 also increases oversight and efficiency of the TWIC program, which was originally mandated 6 years ago, yet continues to flounder. To date only 230,000 out of an estimated 845,000 applicants have enrolled in the TWIC program, while the deadline for enrollment is September 25, 2008. While this provision of the Coast Guard Authorization is both timely and important, there is still more which must be done in order to ensure that the program is both effective and efficient, which is why I have offered an amendment. 
   I would like to reiterate only a few of the obstacles that workers have faced in my State of Texas as well in my district of Houston. For example, a marine worker enrolled at the Houston Port enrolled on December 13, 2007. To date, he still does not yet have a TWIC card. He remained on hold for 4 hours and 10 minutes and was finally told by the operator that he would have to return to Houston to be fingerprinted again after APR. Incidentally, a representative of Higman Marine Services, Inc. asked the same question about their employee, and she was told that he should not return until June. This blatant inconsistency in service and information is simply unacceptable. Furthermore, another transportation worker went to the Beaumont center about three weeks ago to pick up his TWIC after being notified it was ready. He traveled from Hemphill, TX (117 miles) and was told that the card was accidentally shipped to Houston and he could drive there (85 miles) to pick it up. He presently does not have his card. The list of incidences in which workers have to continually overcome structural impediments is too long for me to name. It is from my concern for these workers that I have introduced my amendment. 
   My amendment calls for the Secretary of Homeland Security to compile an assessment of the enrollment sites for transportation security cards issued under 7 section 70105 of title 46, United States Code within 30 days of enactment. The assessment should, at a minimum, examine: the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open 24 hours per day, and 7 days per week, in order to better handle the large number of applicants for such cards; the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open after September 25, 2008; and the quality of customer service, including the periods of time individuals are kept on hold on the telephone, whether appointments are kept, and processing times for applications. 
   My amendment furthermore calls on the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop timelines and benchmarks for implementing the findings of the assessment as the Secretary deems necessary. By identifying the areas in which enrollment sites for homeland security cards are ineffective and inefficient and creating a timeline through which to implement necessary changes and benchmarks to ensure their progress and accountability, we will make this Nation a safer place accessible to labor and operations alike. 
   Mr. Chairman, the Transportation Security Administration has expressed some concern over Title X of this legislation. Title X would transfer Coast Guard Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) authority to review merchant mariner documentation as well as 80 percent of the ALJ budget to NTSB. I understand the TSA's concern that such a step might have an adverse impact on anticipated cases dealing with TWIC and adjudication of TSA's civil cases, and I am committed to working with TSA to ensure that the execution of this legislation is beneficial to all parties involved. 
   Long before the horrific events of September 11, 2001, citizens of American relied upon the Coast Guard to ensure the safety of our waterways, and we depend on them still. Therefore, I urge my fellow members of Congress to also support the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007 and ensure this rich and necessary tradition remains a thriving and useful part of not only our national defense strategy but also to protect us and the environment from those threats by sea.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, as I indicated in the general debate, this is an exercise in unity as relates to the safety and security of the Nation and, of course, the reauthorization and the emphasis of the specialness of the Coast Guard. I am delighted to come from the fourth largest city in the Nation and to have a very large port that benefits from the outstanding service of the U.S. Coast Guard. 
   I want to thank Chairman Oberstar for not only his eloquence, but his long-standing history and knowledge of what we needed to do in this Congress, the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Cummings, and as well the distinguished, as they all are distinguished, ranking member of the full committee, the distinguished gentleman from Ohio, working on this along with my full committee chair, Mr. Thompson. I serve as the Subcommittee Chair on Transportation, Security, and Infrastructure Protection. We have had a number of opportunities to work together. So we are filled with tasks, and those tasks must be addressed. 
   I rise in support of the legislation. My amendment is a simple but important addition to this vital legislation, which I believe can be supported by every Member of the House. 
   My amendment calls for the Secretary of Homeland Security to prepare an assessment of the enrollment site for the Transportation Worker Identification Credential, TWIC, which we have heard so much about. These cards are issued under section 70105 of Title 46 USC within 30 days of the enactment of this act. 
   The assessment should at a minimum examine the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, in order to better handle the large number of applicants for such cards, the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open after September 25, 2008, and the quality of customer service, including the periods of time individuals are kept on hold on the telephone, appointments are kept, and processing times for applications. We are here to help. 
   In our committee, we have heard over and over again, everyone is trying to meet the deadline. DHS, the Department of Homeland Security, has a deadline. We believe as Members of Congress they should have a deadline to secure America, but we must make sure that the deadline is realistic in light of the resources and the tools that they have to comply. 
   Madam Chairman, I continue to receive firsthand accounts from my constituents in and around the Nation that deal with the question of transportation workers and operators who are frustrated because of sometimes the unsatisfactory performance of TWIC enrollment sites. 
   I have spoken with a multitude of people from throughout the country who have shared with me the great difficulty they experience due to administrative obstacles obtaining their TWIC cards. These obstacles include the lack of enrollment sites or the difficulty in getting to the enrollment sites, making appointments at enrollment sites which are not kept, long processing lines for applications, and staying on hold for hours on the telephone. While we have made securing our Nation a priority, we must ensure we do so in the most productive way. 
   Let me just briefly say what we have seen from the State of Texas and around the Nation. For example, a marine worker at the Houston Port enrolled on December 13, 2007, at the Houston center. To this date, he does not have a card. He remained on hold for 4 hours and 10 minutes and was finally told by the operator that he would have to return to Houston to be fingerprinted again after April. Incidentally, a representative of the Higman Marine Services asked the same question about the employee. That person was told that they should not return until June. 
   These inconsistencies in service and information are not helping us get our TWIC cards to those individuals, hard-working Americans who need to have a job and a TWIC card to work. 
   Furthermore, another transportation worker went to the Beaumont center about 3 weeks ago to pick up his TWIC after being notified it was ready. He traveled from a place in Texas. He was told that the card was accidentally shipped to Houston and he could drive 85 miles to pick it up. He presently does not have a card, and therefore he is not able to move forward. The list of incidents go on. 
   My amendment calls for the Secretary to assess within a month of the enactment these TWIC enrollment sites to determine the feasibility of having them open at times when transportation workers can come and improve the quality of processing procedures. Furthermore, my amendment calls on the Secretary to develop timelines and benchmarks on their assessment. Finally, it calls for them to implement any changes necessary, including keeping it open 24 hours a day, keeping it open 7 days a week, but really at the assessment of the Department of Homeland Security. 
   Workers are trying to do what they are supposed to do. We have to do what we have to do. I believe this amendment will help do it better, and I believe it is part of the security fabric,  and I hope that we will pass this amendment.  
   Thank you, Madam Chairman, for affording me this opportunity to address the Members of the House of Representatives and explain my amendment to H.R. 2830, the ``Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007.'' My amendment is a simple but important addition to this important legislation, which I believe can be supported by every Member of this House. 
   My amendment calls for the Secretary of Homeland Security to prepare an assessment of the enrollment sites for Transportation Worker Identification Credential, TWIC, cards issued under section 70105 of title 46, United States Code, within 30 days of the enactment of this Act. This assessment should, at a minimum, examine: the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open 24 hours per day, and 7 days per week, in order to better handle the large number of applicants for such cards; the feasibility of keeping those enrollment sites open after September 25, 2008; and the quality of customer service, including the periods of time individuals are kept on hold on the telephone, whether appointments are kept, and processing times for applications. 
   Madam Chairman, I continue to receive firsthand accounts from my constituents in Houston and from other transportation workers and operators around the country regarding their frustrations and the unsatisfactory performance of TWIC enrollment sites. I have spoken with a multitude of people from throughout the country who have shared with me the great difficulties they experienced due to administrative obstacles in obtaining their TWIC cards. These obstacles include the difficulty of going to enrollment sites, making appointments at enrollment sites which are not kept, long processing times for applications, and staying on hold for hours on the telephone. While we have made securing our Nation a priority, we must ensure that we do so in the most effective and efficient way possible. 
   I would like to reiterate only few of the obstacles that workers have faced in my State of Texas as well in my district of Houston. For example, a marine worker enrolled at the Houston Port enrolled on December 13, 2007. To this date, he still does not yet have a TWIC card. He remained on hold for 4 hours and 10 minutes and was finally told by the operator that he would have to return to Houston to be fingerprinted again after APR. Incidentally, a representative of Higman Marine Services, Inc., asked the same question about their employee, and she was told that he should not return until June. This blatant inconsistency in service and information is simply unacceptable. Furthermore, another transportation worker went to the Beaumont center about 3 weeks ago to pick up his TWIC after being notified it was ready. 
   He traveled from Hemphill, TX (117 miles) and was told that the card was accidentally shipped to Houston and he could drive there (85 miles) to pick it up. He presently does not have his card. The list of incidences in which workers have to continually overcome structural impediments is too long for me to name. It is from my concern for these workers that I have introduced my amendment. 
   That is why my amendment calls for the Secretary of Homeland Security to assess, within a month of this Act's enactment, these TWIC enrollment sites to determine the feasibility of having them open at times where transportation workers can come and to improve the quality of their processing procedures. Furthermore, my amendment calls on the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop timelines and benchmarks for implementing the findings of the assessment as the Secretary deems necessary. By identifying the areas in which enrollment sites for homeland security cards are ineffective and inefficient and creating a timeline through which to implement necessary changes and benchmarks to ensure their progress and accountability, we will make this nation a safer place--accessible to labor and operators alike. 
   In short, Madam Chairman, my amendment can be summed up as follows: for those who have confidence in how these TWIC enrollment sites are administering this program, my amendment offers vindication. For those who are skeptical and have seen firsthand the problems apparent at these enrollment sites, my amendment will provide the information necessary to rectify the causes for their frustrations and a way forward to ensure that the results of this assessment are actually implemented.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I just want to thank all of you, and I believe that this is the right step. The action item is that they should implement the process of their study to make it work for our various mariners so that they can be part of the security of America. I ask my colleagues to support the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOMELAND SECURITY -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to talk about the issues of homeland security and ask my colleagues to reflect upon the legislation, historic legislation that we have just passed regarding the U.S. Coast Guard. We have added enough new Coast Guard to raise the number to 47,000 members of the U.S. Coast Guard. That is something to applaud. 
   We have provided an opportunity for securing our LNG, liquid natural gas, in the number of ports around America where surrounding communities exist. We have created a format to secure our waterways where the U.S. Coast Guard is involved. We have provided for an enhanced expedited process for securing what we call TWIC cards. These are documentation for port workers to have after September 25, 2008. 
   Today I rise to offer a resolution that will acknowledge the Transportation Security Administration addressing the question of security as relates to our transportation security that would mandate the implementation of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 that enhances security against terrorist attack and other security threats to our Nation's rail and mass transit. 
   I am doing this along with a number of Members, including Chairman BENNIE THOMPSON of the full committee. It is important to note that transportation systems are systems that have been under attack, particularly mass transit, and I believe it is important to encourage TSA to continue to developed the National Explosive Detection Canine Team Program which is supported in a bipartisan manner, one that I have seen work and has been very effective to improve the success of the Online Learning Center by providing increased person-to-person professional development programs to ensure those responsible for securing against terrorist attacks on our transportation systems are highly trained and to continue to serve our Nation's mass transit and rail systems against terrorist attack and other security threats so as to ensure the safety of our commuters on our Nation's mass transit. 
   This is a resolution to encourage the TSA to improve their work product, to thank them for the work product that they are doing, but also to encourage them to work diligently in compliance with the new legislation that we just passed. 
   I also want to speak to the phenomenon that is being used across America called ICE raids. I am very well aware that the Secretary of Homeland Security believes that he has been forced to use a new tactic in immigration reform because this Congress has not been able to shed itself of obstacles of bias and disagreement, to get into a room and truly provide for comprehensive reform of the immigration system, something I have worked on for 6 years. 
   I appreciate the leadership from both sides of the aisle with their different perspectives. I am delighted to serve on the Judiciary Committee with JOHN CONYERS and ZOE LOFGREN, who have been champions of this reform process, along with BENNIE THOMPSON and LORETTA SANCHEZ on Homeland Security. 
   But we cannot stand by and allow our immigration system to be formed by massive raids on individuals who are here only to work. My fear is that a potential violent act may occur out of fear and apprehension. So I believe it is important for the administration, the White House, to stand up and be counted, to go to the bully pulpit and insist on a comprehensive response to immigration, not the raiding of Shipley's Do-Nuts, so that people in an apartment building are jumping out of apartment building windows out of fear. You are not going to deport 12 million people. Get a life. It is important to know who everyone is, and I want to make sure that we do so. 
   I want it to be known that I stand against random ICE raids. I am not against immigration reform in a right way. I am not for illegal immigration. But I will tell you it will not work. It will be deadly and it will be devastating. It is important for employers to hire documented workers and be under the eye of the law, and we should enforce this idea of making sure people are documented.     
   But it's up to the government to get a system that works so that we can  give documentation to individuals who are here simply to work, and we can weed out the terrorists. 
   People who are working at Shipley's Do-Nuts, people who are in hotels and restaurants, who are not taking American jobs, are doing the work that this Nation needs. 
   We need to hire Americans first. But we cannot, by a raid, end the immigration crisis. We need to fix it, and we need to fix it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMPLEMENTING THE 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Murtha, thank you for your leadership. It is good to see you in the Speaker's Chair. Let me thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Thompson, for his vision and his leadership. 
   Very quickly, let me remind my colleagues of the tragic incident where we saw the massive loss of life on September 11, 2001. Today we stand on the floor in 2007 finishing the work that was not done by this part Republican Congress since 2001. So I applaud the leadership of this committee for moving forward on responding to the tragedy that changed the lives of so many Americans and those who are still suffering because of the deaths of their loved ones. 
   This is an important step and an important day, and I quickly acknowledge the fact that we will now have 100 percent scanning of containers bound for the United States. We will have the effectiveness of making sure that the best technology will be used; and also we will tell America that all of the critical infrastructure will be updated and current so we will know those most vulnerable assets. 
   In addition, we will have for the first time a transportation security planning strategy, and I compliment the gentleman from Mississippi whose bill authored in the last session establishes the importance of having a strategy for transportation security. 
   Need I remind you of the recent incident with the Metro here in Washington, D.C. Although it was labeled as an accident, we know that the transportation system of America is enormously vulnerable. 
   I am grateful that we have now a Civil Liberties and Privacy Board that has been languishing in the White House, but now it is under the jurisdiction of the United States Congress. And, yes, the work I have done in the past on anti-smuggling legislation was reaffirmed by the restrictions on terrorists freely traveling without real protection against this danger. 
   This is a good bill. It is long overdue, and I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 1.  
   INTRODUCTION 
   Mr. Speaker, September 11, 2001, is a day that is indelibly etched in the psyche of every American and most of the world. Much like the unprovoked attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, September 11, is a day that will live in infamy. And as much as Pearl Harbor changed the course of world history by precipitating the global struggle between totalitarian fascism and representative democracy, the transformative impact of September 11 in the course of American and human history is indelible. September 11 was not only the beginning of the Global War on Terror, but moreover, it was the day of innocence lost for a new generation of Americans. 
   Just like my fellow Americans, I remember September 11 as vividly as if it was yesterday. In my mind's eye, I can still remember being mesmerized by the television as the two airliners crashed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center, and I remember the sense of terror we experienced when we realized that this was no accident, that we had been attacked, and that the world as we know it had changed forever. The moment in which the Twin Towers collapsed and the nearly 3,000 innocent Americans died haunts me until this day. 
   At this moment, I decided that the protection of our homeland would be at the forefront of my legislative agenda. I knew that all of our collective efforts as Americans would all be in vain if we did not achieve our most important priority: the security of our Nation. Accordingly, I became then and continue to this day to be an active and engaged Member of the Committee on Homeland Security who considers our national security paramount. 
   Our Nation's collective response to the tragedy of September 11 exemplified what has been true of the American people since the inception of our Republic--in times of crisis, we come together and always persevere. Despite the depths of our anguish on the preceding day, on September 12, the American people demonstrated their compassion and solidarity for one another as we began the process of response, recovery, and rebuilding. We transcended our differences and came together to honor the sacrifices and losses sustained by the countless victims of September 11. Let us honor their sacrifices by implementing the bipartisan recommendations of the 9/11 Commission in order to ensure that the tragedy of 9/11 is never repeated. Let us learn from the lessons offered by our history so that we are not destined to repeat them. 
   9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS 
   Madam Speaker, I wish to pay tribute to the distinguished chair of the Homeland Security Committee, the gentleman from Mississippi, Bennie Thompson. Under Mr. Thompson's visionary leadership, the Democrats on the Committee have performed yeoman service in developing a framework needed to protect the homeland. Unlike the previous Republican leadership, we Democrats embrace wholeheartedly the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, a body comprised of ten of the most distinguished citizens in this country. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to talk about several of the key provisions of H.R. 1, the bill implementing the bipartisan 9/11 Commission's recommendations.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MOURNING THE PASSING OF PRESIDENT GERALD RUDOLPH FORD -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 15. This resolution mourns the passing of Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr., the 38 President of the United States, and honors his lifetime of outstanding leadership and service to our Nation. 
   President Ford was born Leslie Lynch King, Jr., in 1913 in Omaha, Nebraska. Soon after his birth, his mother moved to Grand Rapids, Michigan, where she remarried and he was adopted and renamed after his stepfather, Gerald Rudolph Ford. 
   While in high school, Jerry Ford was an outstanding student and athlete, and Eagle Scout. He went on to achieve a Bachelor of Arts at the University of Michigan, where he majored in economics and political science. He also played on the University's 1932 and 1933 national championship football teams and was selected to several college All-American football teams. Indeed, Jerry Ford was such a gifted football player that he was offered contracts by the Detroit Lions and Green Bay Packers. But he turned them down to accept a coaching position at Yale University, in hopes of gaining admission to its law school. His perseverance paid off and he was admitted in 1938. He graduated in the top third of his class with an LL.B. in 1941. 
   President Ford returned to Grand Rapids to practice law and teach a course at the University of Grand Rapids. He also helped coach the Grand Rapids football team. After the United States entered World War II, he joined the U.S. Naval Reserve, serving on the light aircraft carrier USS Monterey. In 1944, he narrowly survived a deadly typhoon in the Philippine Sea. In 1946 he completed his military service and was honorably discharged. 
   Upon returning home to Grand Rapids, Jerry Ford resumed his law practice, this time with a more ``internationalist'' outlook due to his experiences abroad. He was elected to Congress with more than 60 percent of the vote in 1948 after ousting an isolationist incumbent in the Republican primary. During the 1948 campaign, Jerry married the outspoken advocate of women's rights, Elizabeth Anne Bloomer Warren, whom we all know and love as ``Betty.'' Jerry Ford was elected to Congress 13 times by his constituents, never once receiving less than 60 percent of the vote. In October 1973, he was nominated to be Vice-President by President Richard Nixon and assumed the office after being confirmed by both the House and the Senate. In fact, Jerry Ford holds the distinction of being the only person in history to be confirmed by both chambers of Congress. 
   At noon on August 9, 1974, upon the resignation of President Nixon, Jerry Ford became the 38th President of the United States. In addressing the Nation after taking the oath of office, President Ford said: ``My fellow American's, our long national nightmare is over.'' And he was right. Over the next twenty-nine months, President Ford did so much, by word and deed, to restore public confidence in the institutions of government. In the final analysis, President Ford's lasting legacy is ``all he did to heal our land,'' as his predecessor, President Jimmy Carter, memorably put it in his 1977 Inaugural Address. There is perhaps no more deserving recipient of the Medal of Freedom, an honor bestowed on President Ford in 2000 by President Bill Clinton. In 1999, he was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal and in 2001, he was presented the Profile in Courage Award by the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum. 
   Mr. Speaker, I salute President Ford for his outstanding and patriotic service, especially his efforts as President to unite and heal the Nation in a time when it had lost all confidence in its officials. I strongly urge all members to join me in supporting this resolution honoring and celebrating the late President Gerald R. Ford and his lifetime of achievement and service to our country. We mourn the death but celebrate the life of this great American, this great president, and former Minority Leader of this House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SELECT INTELLIGENCE OVERSIGHT PANEL -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 35, which establishes a Select Intelligence Oversight Panel of the Committee on Appropriations. Establishing a panel to oversee the expenditures of taxpayer monies on intelligence activities is imperative to ensure that our Intelligence community functions at the highest level to keep the citizens of this country safe and secure. This is a welcome, beneficial, and long overdue reform. For far too long there has not been any means for this body to measure the effectiveness of the usage of funds appropriated to ensure that the intelligence community is equipped to detect, detract and deter the many potentially detrimental and disastrous threats to the citizens of this country. 
   Madam Speaker, one of the advantages of establishing a select intelligence oversight panel with the Committee on Appropriations is that it will enable the House to hold hearings and conduct oversight regarding the appropriation and expenditure of funds for intelligence-related activities. The resulting openness in intelligence matters through this oversight panel enables this House to discharge its duty to the nation to ensure that our intelligence capabilities are the highest and best in the world and more than sufficient to prevent another 9/11. We cannot afford the costs of the tragic results of 9/11. In fact, the families of the victims of 9/11 as well as all of the citizens of this country still look to us for responsible action in the area of Intelligence. 
   The oversight panel will also serve the important role of removing barriers between the House Appropriations subcommittee that approves funds for intelligence and the intelligence committee that oversees operations. Of great importance, is the fact that the establishment of this panel will address a central commission finding that Congressional oversight of intelligence matters is dysfunctional and needs to be more centralized. This oversight panel will give Congress a much better chance to correct and avoid those major concerns which were highlighted by the 9/11 Commission. Those problems included: permeable borders; inconsistency in immigration policy; limited capacities to share intelligence information; permeable aviation security; an unprepared FAA and NORAD; ineffective communication and no clear chain of command; no unity for emergency responders; and Congress and Executive Branch that was too slow in responding to threats. 
   Madam Speaker, the creation of this select panel will allow the House to review intelligence spending requests, conduct hearings, make financing recommendations and assess how the money is spent. With this increased ability to monitor the budget as well as operations of the Intelligence community, we can better face and prepare for the security challenges confronting the United States and the international community as a whole. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill to establish a Select Intelligence Oversight Panel of the Committee on Appropriations.  
   Mr,. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SECURING AIRCRAFT COCKPITS AGAINST LASERS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 1615, the ``Securing Aircraft Cockpits Against Lasers Act of 2007.'' While the goal of this legislation--to keep our air passengers safe and to effect better ``homeland security''--I must point out that initially I was very concerned that this penal legislation was not tailored narrowly enough to exclude only the evil sought to be prohibited. 
   That is why I offered an amendment during markup of this bill. My amendment was designed to limit the scope of the bill so that it fulfills its intended purposes, which is to protect aircraft crew, and through them passengers, by prohibiting the aiming of the beam of a laser pointer at an aircraft, or the flight  path of such an aircraft. My amendment clarified that the significant penal provisions in the bill are directed at conduct that is harmful to the aircraft or crew. Specifically, my amendment adds an important and useful qualification to the bill's definition of a ``laser pointer'' to mean: 
   1. Any device designed or used to amplify electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission that emits a beam designed to be used by the operator as a pointer or highlighter to indicate, mark, or identify a specific position, place, item, or object; and 
   2. Is capable of inflicting serious bodily injury if aimed at an airplane cockpit from a minimum distance of 500 yards. 
   But after consulting with the bill's managers, I am satisfied that it is not necessary to require that the offending laser pointer be capable of inflicting ``serious bodily harm'' from a minimum distance of 500 yards. I am persuaded that the language used in the bill implies a standard of at least ``significant risk'' to airplane pilots, crew, and passengers. 
   I agree, for example, that using a laser pointing device capable of temporarily blinding or causing a pilot to become disoriented is clearly a ``significant risk.'' My major concern with the definition of laser pointers was that it did not distinguish between the kind you can buy at a dollar store that runs on a couple of AAA batteries and has a range of about 25 feet and a high powered laser scope that has a range 100 times as far. But based on my discussions with the bill's managers, Mr. Scott and Mr. Keller, I am satisfied that the legislation anticipates that investigative and prosecutorial resources will not be used to prosecute and punish the use of laser pointers that do not pose any safety risk to airplane pilots, their crew, or airline passengers. 
   Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I have determined that I can and will support the bill and I urge my colleagues to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE ON THE OCCASION OF THE 250TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS BIRTH -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 171, honoring Marquis de Lafayette on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of his birth. Marquis de Lafayette certainly holds a special place in the history of our country. It was his support for the ideals of our Revolutionary warriors that helped give birth to the greatest nation in the world. In fact, due to his support for the revolution, and the aid he provided to the colonist in their struggle for independence, Marquis de Lafayette was voted by Congress the rank and commission of major general in the Continental Army. Lafayette offered his services as an unpaid volunteer. On July 31, 1777 Congress passed a resolution, ``that his services be accepted, and that, in consideration of his zeal, illustrious family, and connections, he  have the rank and commission of major-general of the United States.'' 
   He was a man that was admired by our first President George Washington and that affection was mutual. In fact Marquis de Lafayette even named his son after our first President, and Washington was the godfather to Lafayette's child. 
   This is a gentleman that is so revered in American history that in 2002, he was posthumously made an honorary citizen of the United States; one of only six persons so honored. Likewise, a portrait of Lafayette hangs in the House Chamber. 
   Marquis de Lafayette, held a strong belief in freedom, he advocated the abolition of slavery in the Americas, he favored equal legal rights for religious minorities in France, and he was a prominent figure in the French Revolution. Now some will cite the fact that Lafayette himself owned slaves as a sign of hypocrisy, but he encouraged George Washington to free his own slaves as an example to others. Lafayette would subsequently purchase an estate in French Guinea and settle his slaves there and offered a place for Washington's slaves to live also. Lafayette was famously quoted as saying, ``I would never have drawn my sword in the cause of America if I could have conceived thereby that I was founding a land of slavery.'' 
   The fact that Lafayette was the first foreign dignitary to address the House of Representatives symbolizes the wonderful relationsbip between France and the United States. In light of the recent elections' in France, I hope that our leaders in Congress, the Senate, and the White House will maintain our strong ties with the newly elected leader of France, Nicolas Sarkozy. France is a nation that the United States has shared the same values with since its inception. Lafayette symbolized the assistance America received from Europe in the struggle for independence, just like United States aid to France during World Wars I and II stemmed in part from shared values of democracy and freedom, values that Lafayette held. I am confident that the administration of President Sarkozy will work earnestly with our leaders and continue in the great tradition of not only a French hero, but a true American hero, Marquis de Lafayette.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SYMPATHY TO THE CITIZENS OF GREENSBURG, KANSAS -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 400, which expresses the sympathy of the House of Representatives to the citizens of Greensburg, KS, over the devastating tornado of May 4, 2007. 
   Just over 2 weeks ago, a devastating weekend of storms left at least 9 people dead and much of the farm town of Greensburg, KS, destroyed. Mile-wide tornadoes with winds of up to 205 miles per hour were recorded, leveling the town and destroying much of the equipment used by first-responders, including city and county trucks. By the time the winds finally settled, approximately 95 percent had been destroyed, displacing over 1,500 residents from their homes. 
   The tragedy of this storm was compounded by the lack of available responders and equipment. Governor Kathleen Sebelius has lamented the deployment of much needed troops and resources to Iraq, stating ``When the troops get deployed, the equipment goes with them. So here in Kansas about 50 percent of our trucks are gone. We need trucks. We are missing Humvees, we're missing all kinds of equipment that could help us respond in this kind of emergency.'' 
   This storm illustrated precisely how rescue and recovery efforts here at home are being severely hampered by our ongoing involvement in Iraq. National Guard representatives have echoed this statement, with MG. Tod Bunting of the Kansas National Guard noting that first-responders lacked resources even before the war, which has subsequently ``further depleted us.'' 
   Despite these shortages, Guard troops are to be commended for their efforts at providing much needed security and supplies. 
   Here in Congress, as hurricane season rapidly approaches, we are actively examining our Nation's response to natural disasters. Two years ago we learned, from Hurricane Katrina, the extent to which we were unprepared for, and unable to adequately respond to, a disaster of this magnitude. 
   I urge this Congress to continue to pursue this important issue; the tornadoes in Kansas serve to remind us all that nature's furies are varied and unpredictable. 
   Mr. Speaker, Greensburg, KS, remains in shambles. Homes are demolished, livelihoods lost, lives interrupted. I would like to join my colleague, Mr. Moran of Kansas, the sponsor of this bill, in expressing my deep personal sympathy to the victims of this natural disaster. Similarly, I would like to express my strong support for this resolution, and I would urge my colleagues to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRESERVING UNITED STATES ATTORNEY INDEPENDENCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I strongly support S. 214, which is the Senate version of H.R. 580, which the Judiciary Committee favorably reported on March 15, 2007. This much needed and timely legislation amends chapter 35 of title 28 of the United States Code to restore the 120-day limit on the term of a United States Attorney appointed on an interim basis by the Attorney General. The shocking revelations regarding the unprecedented firings of several United States Attorneys provide all the justification needed to adopt this salutary measure promptly and by an overwhelming margin. 
   United States Attorneys are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. Each United States Attorney so appointed is authorized to serve a 4-year term but is subject to removal by the President without cause. The Senate's advise and consent process formally checks the power of the President by requiring the United States Attorney nominee to go through a confirmation process. 
   In addition, Senators also play a particularly influential informal role in the nomination of United States Attorneys. Typically, a President, prior to appointing a new United States Attorney, consults with the Senators from the State where the vacancy exists if they are members of the President's political party. The President usually accepts the nominee recommended by the Senator or other official. This tradition, called ``Senatorial courtesy,'' serves as an informal check on the President's appointment power. 
   Since the Civil War, the judiciary has been empowered to fill vacancies in the office of the United States Attorney. In 1966, that authority was codified at 28 U.S.C. &#167;546. When a United States Attorney position became vacant, the district court in the district where the vacancy occurred named a temporary replacement to serve until the vacancy was filled. In 1986, in response to a request by the Attorney General that its office be vested with authority to appoint interim United States Attorneys, Congress amended the statute to add former section 546(d). 
   Pursuant to this authority, the Attorney General was authorized to appoint an interim United States Attorney for 120 days and, if the Senate did not confirm a new United States Attorney within such period, the district court was then authorized to appoint an interim United States Attorney to serve until a permanent replacement was confirmed. By having the district court play a role in the selection of an interim United States Attorney, former section 546(d) allowed the judicial branch to act as a check on executive power. In practice, if a vacancy was expected, the Attorney General would solicit the opinion of the chief judge of the relevant district regarding possible temporary appointments. 
   Twenty years later, section 546 was amended again in the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005. This legislation amended section 546(c) to provide that ``[a] person appointed as United States attorney under this section may serve until the qualification of a United States Attorney for such district 
   appointed by the President'' under 28 U.S.C. &#167;541. The extent of the legislative history of this provision is one sentence appearing in the conference report accompanying the Act: ``Section 502 [effecting the amendments to section 546] is a new section and addresses an inconsistency in the appointment process of United States Attorneys.'' 
   Although the legislative purpose is unclear, the practical effect is not. The Act amended  section 546 in two critical respects. First, it effectively removed district court judges from the interim appointment process and vested the Attorney General with the sole power to appoint interim United States Attorneys. Second, the Act eliminated the 120-day limit on the term of an interim United States Attorney appointed by the Attorney General. As a result, judicial input in the interim appointment process was eliminated. Even more problematic, it created a possible loophole that permit United States Attorneys appointed on an interim basis to serve indefinitely without ever being subjected to Senate confirmation process, which is plainly a result not contemplated by the Framers. 
   Mr. Speaker, excluding changes in administration, it is rare for a United States Attorney to not complete his or her 4-year term of appointment. According to the Congressional Research Service, only 54 United States Attorneys between 1981 and 2006 did not complete their 4-year terms. Of these, 30 obtained other public sector positions or sought elective office, 15 entered or returned to private practice, and one died. Of the remaining eight United States Attorneys, two were apparently dismissed by the President, and three apparently resigned after news reports indicated they had engaged in questionable personal actions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NO OIL PRODUCING AND EXPORTING CARTELS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to thank Chairman Conyers for doing something and looking at this from a perspective that is thoughtful, that is embracing and that recognizes the largeness of this issue. 
   Might I just recount for my colleagues that this is a bipartisan bill. Many people have come to the floor of the House or in the Judiciary Committee, some are on Science, some are on Energy and Commerce, but all of them have faced what I face, being stopped in the airport by airport workers, individuals who are hourly wages, and they simply say, we can't take it anymore. As I got on the plane, their last word was, can you do something about the gasoline prices? Today in America, gasoline prices are over $3.20 a gallon--enough is enough! 
   As we enter into the summer, we are being told that it's going to get worse, higher and higher and higher. The distinguished Speaker said the gentlewoman from Texas. I represent what is known as the energy capital of the world, and what I would encourage the particular companies that I have the privilege of representing, and I have in essence probably voted differently from many in this House in supporting the Energy Policy Act and a number of initiatives that were supposed to help us diversify or help enhance the capacity of our particular companies. They were supposed to help build refinery capacity, which I will tell you is an issue. I was supposed to applaud offshore development in certain areas if it was environmentally safe. We've tried to do everything in order to ensure that we have a strong industry, but that we provide for those who are in need. 
   This legislation simply gives the Attorney General the authority to find out about an organization. Many of us have friends that happen to be from these particular nations. We are supportive of the engagement of these particular nations in the Mideast. We work with them. We've traveled there. We encourage engagement on the State Department level. We want to be friends, but there has to be a question of whether or not OPEC provides itself insulated against antitrust violations such that they can gouge or raise prices without any recrimination. 
   This is a thoughtful legislative initiative that gives the Attorney General of the United States the ability to review whether or not this entity violates the antitrust laws. 
   You must understand that when the oil comes to the United States, even though we may be operators in those foreign countries, some of the named companies that you know, some of the ones that you pull up to the station, the OPEC sets the prices, and therefore, they look at the marketplace to determine how much money they can get out of a suffering Nation or suffering world. 
   As you well know, one of our trade deficit partners, China, is consuming more oil than one might imagine. That bumps the price up. And who is the victim? The hardworking citizens in this country, whether they live in Houston, Detroit or New York, or whether they are simply trying to get little ones to soccer teams, to after-school programs or to their religious institution. Nobody can get anywhere because of the price. 
   So I simply, as I draw to a close, want to be able to cite from the report language of this bill: ``With control of 40 percent of the world's production, OPEC has substantial influences over the price of oil. OPEC member nations have extensive oil reserves and therefore can readily increase supply and lower prices.'' That means the OPEC can act for the greater good if they desire to do so. 
   I think that's simple enough to understand. They can increase supply, they can lower prices, but they're not doing it. 
   So I would ask my colleagues from all parts of the country to be sympathetic to vacationers, people trying to get to hospitals, mothers and fathers taking children to various places, elderly trying to get to the places of worship, where they go. Just the sheer operation of America is dependent on what we do here today. I can't go home, and I imagine none of you can, without saying we tried to do something. 
   I close simply by an oral letter to my constituents. You might think that you can ride this out, those of you who are the named and successful operators of our energy industry in the United States. We encourage you, you are American, you have jobs, you are the engine of the economy. We're not your enemy. We are your supporters, but we have to work for the consumers. Come out in the open. Encourage a roundtable of discussion. Let the CEOs of the major companies sit in a roundtable discussion and discuss with the American people why we have this increasing and burdensome cost of gasoline. 
   Look closely at the legislation that is before us and recognize that it is a valuable piece of legislation that gives authority just for the thoughtful review of how we can do better. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this particular legislation, H.R. 2264, that, in fact, is an answer to this constant question, what are we going to do about gasoline prices? As Members of the United States Congress, it is imperative that we act. We have to do more. This is a thoughtful piece of legislation that frames the question whether or not a sovereign nation is protected against antitrust violations that impact negatively on the consumer in the United States of America. We have to do this, and we have to do more. 
   I thank the gentleman from Detroit, from Michigan, the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, for yielding to this grounded representative of the energy industry in Houston, Texas, who wants to work collectively to get something done for the people of the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTERNET SPYWARE (I-SPY) PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud original co-sponsor of the legislation before us, I speak in strong support of H.R. 1525, the ``Internet Spyware (I-SPY) Prevention Act of 2007.'' 
   H.R. 1525 amends the federal computer fraud and abuse statute to make it unlawful to access a computer without authorization or to intentionally exceed authorized access by causing a computer program or code to be copied onto the computer and using that program or code to transmit or obtain personal information (for example, first and last names, addresses, e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, Social Security numbers, drivers license numbers, or bank or credit account numbers). 
   Further, H.R. 1525 discourages the practice of phishing, another scourge of the Internet. ``Phishing'' is a general term for using what appears to be either the Web sites of, or e-mails that appear to be sent from, readily identifiable and legitimate businesses. These fraudulent Web sites and e-mails are designed to deceive Internet users into revealing personal information that can then be used to defraud those same users. The `phishers' take that information and use it for criminal purposes, like identity theft and fraud. Phishing is adequately covered by the criminal code, but additional funds are needed to prosecute the crime. This bill would authorize 10 million dollars for each of the fiscal years 2008 to 2011 to combat phishing and spyware. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we all know too well, spyware is quickly becoming one of the biggest threats to consumers on the information superhighway. Spyware encompasses several potential risks, including the promotion of identity theft by harvesting personal information from consumer's computers. Additionally, it can adversely affect businesses, as they are forced to sustain costs to block and remove spyware from employees' computers, in addition to the potential impact on productivity. 
   Spyware has been defined as ``software that aids in gathering information about a person or organization without their knowledge and which may send such information to another entity with the consumer's consent, or asserts control over a computer with the consumer's knowledge.'' Among other things, criminals can use spyware to track every keystroke an individual makes, including credit card and social security numbers. 
   Some estimates suggest 25 percent of all personal computers contain some kind of spyware while other estimates show that spyware afflicts as many as 80-90 percent of all personal computers. Businesses are reporting several negative effects of spyware. Microsoft says evidence shows that spyware is ``at least partially responsible for approximately one-half of all application crashes'' reported to them, resulting in millions of dollars of unnecessary support calls. 
   The last point I wish to make, Mr. Speaker, is that H.R. 1525 is substantially similar to the bipartisan H.R. 744, introduced in the 109th Congress, which passed the House by a vote  of 395-1 and H.R. 4661, which passed the House during the 108th Congress by a vote of 415-0. H.R. 1525 is supported by numerous industry groups and privacy coalitions, including the Business Software Alliance, the Software & Information Industry Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1525 and urge all my colleagues to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 47, supporting the goals and ideals of a National Medal of Honor Day to celebrate and honor the recipients of the Medal of Honor. The Medal of Honor is the highest award that can be bestowed on a member of the Armed Fores for his or her valiant acts of bravery while engaged in combat against an enemy of the United States. 
   The Medal of Honor is awarded by the President, in the name of the Congress, to members of the Armed Forces who have distinguished themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity and risked their lives above and beyond the call of duty. The first Medal of Honor was awarded on March 25, 1863 during our country's Civil War to PVT Jacob Parrott during the American Civil War for his role in Andrews Raid. He was the first of only 3,443 members in war, military operations and other armed conflicts of our Armed Forces who have received this great honor. 
   There are 111 Medal of Honor recipients still living and serving our country in their own capacity and I, as well as the entire Nation, will forever be indebted to all recipients of this award for their valor during armed conflict. 
   It is appropriate and necessary to commemorate and honor the recipients of the Medal of Honor and to recognize their valiant sacrifices for our country. That is why I support the designation of a National Medal of Honor Day which would heighten the understanding and appreciation of the American people regarding the significance and meaning of the Medal of Honor. 
   It is essential that our Nation celebrate and salute those members of the Armed Forces who have risked their lives to ensure our safety and the safety of our country. Designating this day will also help to focus the efforts of national, State, and local organizations striving to foster public appreciation and recognition of Medal of Honor recipients. 
   I sincerely appreciate the sacrifices the members of our Armed Forces make each and every day on behalf of our country. I support the designation of March 25 as National Medal of Honor Day in honor of all those members of the Armed Forces who performed valiant acts of bravery during combat against an enemy of the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROMOTING ANTITERRORISM COOPERATION THROUGH TECHNOLOGY AND SCIENCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 884, which establishes the Science and Technology Homeland Security International Cooperative Programs Office. H.R. 884 is an improved version of a similar bill, H.R. 4942, passed by the House during the 109th Congress. The purpose of these minor, non-substantive changes is to align the House bill more closely with its Senate counterpart, S. 1554, which will be considered when the Senate takes up H.R. 1, which implements the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. 
   The purpose of H.R. 884 and S. 1554 is to establish an office charged with promoting cooperation between entities of the United States and its allies in the global war on terrorism in the areas of research, development, and commercialization of high-priority technologies intended to detect, prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against acts of terrorism and other high consequence events. The bill also addresses the homeland security needs of Federal, State, and local governments. 
   The House bill authorizes $25 million per year for international cooperative activities for the fiscal years 2008 through 2011 and establishes an International Cooperative Programs Office within the Science and Technology Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security, DHS, headed by a Director. The Director is responsible for: 
   Promoting cooperative research between the U.S. and its allies on homeland security technologies; 
   Developing strategic priorities for international cooperative activity and addressing them through agreements with foreign entities; 
   Facilitating the matching of U.S. entities--including small businesses--engaged in homeland security research with appropriate foreign research partners; 
   Ensuring that activities of the office are coordinated with other relevant research agencies; and 
   Planning and executing conferences and workshops to improve contact among technology developers and to help establish direction for future technology goals. 
   H.R. 884 also establishes a Science and Technology Homeland Security International Cooperative Programs Office to facilitate international cooperative activities throughout the Directorate of Science and Technology. 
   The United States currently participates in similar bilateral programs such as the Bi-National Industrial Research and Development--BIRD Foundation--in which the United States and Israel cooperate on defense-related R&D. The office would conduct similar activities, but they would be run by the Department of Homeland Security rather than a private foundation. 
   The Director of the Office reports directly to the Under Secretary for Science and Technology and is responsible for developing understandings and agreements that allow and support international cooperative activity in support of homeland security research, development, and comparative testing. The legislation also makes the Director responsible for developing strategic priorities for international cooperative activity in support of homeland security research, development, and comparative testing. 
    Mr. Speaker, facilitating international cooperative activity to address strategic priorities through appropriate mechanisms such as grants, cooperative agreements or contracts with foreign public or private entities is another important objective that this legislation prudently vests in the Director. The Director shall also be mandated to identify and match domestic entities engaged in homeland security research with foreign entities so that they may partner in homeland security research activities. 
   Finally, the Director is obligated to work toward bringing about the coordination of the Department's international cooperative activities with the activities of other relevant research agencies and to holding international homeland security technology workshops and conferences. These international cooperative activities are to be supported through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts with Federal governmental organizations, businesses--including small businesses, federally funded research and development centers, institutions of higher education, and foreign and private entities. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bill would encourage equal partnership by requiring that the foreign partner equitably match U.S. funding expended through direct funding or funding of complementary activities, or through provision of staff, facilities, material, or equipment. It strengthens ongoing partnerships and encourages new ones. 
   In addition, partnerships are encouraged with the nations of Africa to facilitate the development of information sharing and other types of collaboration to strengthen American preparedness against threats to our Nation's agricultural sector and public health from exotic diseases. 
    Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 884 and urge my colleagues to do so as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING ANN RICHARDS' EXTRAORDINARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO TEXAS AND AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in proud support, and as an original co-sponsor of H. Res. 42. This resolution is offered by the Texas Democratic Delegation in the House, chaired by Congressman ORTIZ,  and recognizes the extraordinary contributions of Ann Richards to public life in Texas and the United States. It is both fitting and proper that the People's House pay this tribute to a pioneering and path breaking woman who devoted her life to serving the people. 
   Mr. Speaker, this happy moment stands in stark contrast to that sorrowful morning of September 14, 2006, when I informed the House from this podium of my sad duty to report that an American original and the First Lady of Texas politics, the great Ann Richards, had lost her long and valiant battle with throat cancer. 
   Mr. Speaker, Dorothy Ann Willis Richards began her career in politics in the early 1970s after having raised four children. A Democrat, she served as County Commissioner in Travis County, Texas from 1977 to 1982. Richards was elected to the first of two terms as Texas State Treasurer in 1982. We who knew and loved her will remember her always as a forcefully articulate and an amusingly folksy speaker. She first gained national prominence with her keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. In 1990 she was elected governor of Texas, the first woman chief executive of Texas in more than fifty years. 
   Dorothy Ann Willis was born in Lakeview, Texas. She grew up in Waco, Texas, and graduated from Waco High School in 1950, participating in Girls State. She received a bachelor's degree from Baylor University while on a debate scholarship. She married her high school sweetheart, David Richards, and moved to Austin, Texas, where she earned a teaching certificate from the University of Texas at Austin. 
   After graduation, she taught social studies and history at Fulmore Junior High School in Austin, Texas from 1955 to 1956. She had also two daughters and two sons in the following years, and she campaigned for Texas liberals and progressives such as Henry B. Gonzalez, Ralph Yarborough, and Sarah Weddington. One of her daughters, Cecile Richards became president of Planned Parenthood in 2006. Throughout her life Ann Richards was a forceful champion for economic and social justice for all Americans, especially women and the disadvantaged. 
   In 1976, Richards ran against and defeated a three-term incumbent on the Travis County, Texas Commissioner Court, holding the position for six years. She then was elected State Treasurer in 1982, becoming the first woman elected to statewide office in more than fifty years. In winning the Democratic nomination for treasurer, Richards ended the career of a Texas politician with the same name as a president (but no relation), Warren G. Harding. In 1986, she was re-elected treasurer without opposition. 
   Ann Richards delivered the keynote address to the 1988 Democratic National Convention, a move which put her in the national spotlight with the line ``Poor George [H.W. Bush], he can't help it ..... He was born with a silver foot in his mouth.'' The speech set the tone for her political future; she described herself as a real Texan (in supposed contrast to George H.W. Bush), established herself as a feminist, and reached out to African-Americans and Hispanics. In 1989, with co-author Peter Knobler, she wrote her autobiography, Straight from the Heart. 
   In 1990, she sought and won the Democratic gubernatorial nomination besting such venerable vote getters as Texas Attorney General James ``Jim'' Mattox and former governor Mark White. In the general election she defeated multi-millionaire rancher Clayton Williams after a brutal campaign and was inaugurated the 45th governor of Texas in January 1991. 
   The Texas economy had been in a slump since the mid-1980s, compounded by a downturn in the U.S. economy. Governor Richards responded with a program of economic revitalization, yielding growth in 1991 of 2% when the U.S. economy as a whole shrank. She also streamlined Texas's government and regulatory institutions for business and the public. Her efforts helped to revitalize and position Texas's corporate infrastructure for the explosive economic growth it experienced later in the decade. Her audits on the state bureaucracy saved Texas taxpayers more than $6 billion. 
   Governor Richards reformed the Texas prison system, establishing a substance abuse program for inmates, reducing the number of violent offenders released, and increasing prison space to deal with a growing prison population (from less than 60,000 in 1992 to more than 80,000 in 1994). She backed proposals to reduce the sale of semi-automatic firearms and ``cop-killer'' bullets in the state. 
   The Texas Lottery was also instituted during her governorship--advocated as a means of supplementing school finances; Ann Richards purchased the first lotto ticket on May 29, 1992. However, most of the income from the lottery went into the state's general fund rather than specifically to education, until 1997, when all lottery net revenue was redirected to the state's Foundation School Fund, which supports public education. School finance remained one of the key issues of her governorship and of those succeeding hers; the famous Robin Hood plan was launched in the 1992-1993 biennium which attempted to make school funding more equitable across school districts. Richards also sought to decentralize control over education policy to districts and individual campuses; she instituted ``site-based management'' to this end. 
   In March 2006, Governor Richards announced that she had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer and will be seeking treatment at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. The disease has a five-year survival rate of 25 percent. Despite the statistics, Governor Richards vowed to beat her illness and battled valiantly until the very last day, when she finished her journey on earth and ascended to the heavens. 
   None of us who knew and loved Ann Richards will ever forget her or the way she brightened the lives of all the people she served. She was one in a million and she will be deeply missed. She will never be replaced. She was an American original. She was my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PELL GRANT EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 990, which will provide all low-income students with the same opportunity to receive a Pell grant by eliminating the ``tuition sensitivity'' provision in the Pell grant program. The Federal Pell grant is need-based aid that serves as the foundation of a student's financial aid package. In fiscal year 2006, more than 5 million undergraduate students received the Pell grant scholarship, with 74 percent of these recipients having a combined family income below $30,000. 
   Mr. Speaker, under current law Pell grants are awarded to students based on the difference between the appropriated maximum Pell grant award and the student's expected family contribution, which is a measure of the student's and their family's ability to pay for education expenses. 
   The ``tuition sensitivity'' provision of the Pell grant comes into effect when the appropriated award is above $2,7000.00. The provision then reduces the Pell grant scholarship, received by the poorest students attending institutions with the lowest tuition. As a result of this provision, two students with the same low-income background and family expenses could be awarded different amounts for the Pell grant although they are both entitled to receive the maximum amount. 
   Although both students share the same economic hardships, the student attending the college with the lower tuition would receive a smaller Pell grant, thus requiring their expected personal and family expenses to the institution to rise. However, if these same two students attended universities with matching tuition expenses, the award amounts would be equal. 
   Just because a student attends a school with low tuition, that does not mean that he or she can expend more from their personal and family income. A needy student should receive the same amount regardless of their institution's tuition. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 990, which would provide all low-income students with the same opportunity to receive a Pell grant by eliminating the tuition sensitivity provision in the Pell grant. Every student in our Nation who plans to further their education, whether at our Nation's most expensive or least expensive schools, deserves that opportunity. Our Federal Government has made the provisions to financially assist students, especially those from low-income families, in their quest to attend college and we must ensure that every student has this opportunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GENERAL LEAVE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise vigorously to oppose the President's veto because of the 1 million children in Texas and the City of Houston that will be left out in the cold without health care.  
   Madam Speaker, as the chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote in support of overriding the Presidential veto of H.R. 3963, the ``Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' I rise in strong support of this legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the American people. Last November 2006, Americans went to polls by the millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a new direction and a change in the Bush administration's disastrous neglect of the real needs of the American people, particularly children who lack health insurance through no fault of their own. The new Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 976, ``State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' The President vetoed the bill, basing his decision on the absurd and laughable claim that the program was thinly disguised ``socialized medicine'' and that it was too costly to provide health insurance for America's needy children. 
   The President's senseless veto of the SCHIP bill suggests that this administration is operating under the misimpression that it is entitled to a continuation of the ancien r&#233;gime under which the Republican-led Congress look askance and gave the President a blank check to mismanage the affairs of our Nation. Following the President's first veto, the bill was revised to meet a number of concerns raised by the President including ensuring lower-income children are enrolled first and ensuring benefits are denied to illegal immigrants. While the bill again passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 265 to 142, moving to the Senate where it passed by a veto-proof 64 to 30, the President again vetoed the bill and, in so doing, denied health care to millions of deserving American children. 
   No matter how many veto threats the President issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to escalate and continue the war in Iraq or to ignore the pressing domestic needs of the American people. It is long past time for change in Iraq and in the direction of the United States. Just as the people and Government of Iraq must accept responsibility for their own country, the people's representatives in Congress must take the lead in addressing the real problems of real Americans living in the real world. 
   H.R. 3963 is a necessary step in the right direction because it provides dependable and stable funding for children's health insurance under Titles XXI and XIX of the Social Security Act in order to enroll all 6 million uninsured children who are eligible for coverage today, but not enrolled. That is why I strongly support this legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, next to the Iraq war, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the availability of affordable health care for all Americans, especially children. This bipartisan SCHIP bill is supported by an astounding 81 percent of the American people and the majority of Congress. 
   By vetoing the bipartisan SCHIP Authorization Act, the President vetoed the will of the American people. By vetoing that legislation, the President turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the loud message sent by the American people last November. 
   I voted to override the President's veto because I can think of few goals more important  than ensuring that our children have access to health coverage. I voted to override the President's veto because I put the needs of America's children first. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I have risen several times on the floor of the House to encourage my colleagues to consider the mortgage crisis when we talk about an economic stimulus package. 
   It is well known that an economic stimulus package should stimulate and it should be driven by existing law. But there is no reason why we cannot find a connector for a 90-day moratorium, a moratorium on those who are about to go over the brink and provide a freeze on those adjustable rates. An economic stimulus package is to stimulate. What more stimulation than for people to keep their homes and pay their mortgages. 
   Might I also say that as the mortgage collapse goes, then families are subject to not having their children covered by the SCHIP program. The debate today will be enormously important because it will cost less than $3.50 a day to provide for these children. And as well, it will help States all over the Nation, including the 1 million children in Texas that no longer have health insurance because of this horrific veto. 
   We need a stimulus package that provides people with housing and a stimulus package that takes care of our children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEATH IN CUSTODY REPORTING ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman, the chairman of the subcommittee that I have the privilege of serving on, the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism on the House Judiciary Committee. 
   I thank the full committee chairman, Mr. Conyers, the ranking member on the full committee and the ranking member on the subcommittee for having two important initiatives, and I speak to the underlying bill which addresses the question of death in custody, H.R. 3971. 
   I, too, want to applaud the fact that the existence of this legislation is a strong statement that, in spite of individuals being incarcerated in the criminal justice system, in the penal system, in the prison system, that there is a responsibility; one for the safety and security of those who are incarcerated, particularly, as well, that younger and younger individuals are going into our criminal justice system of which we hope to address as we look to these issues in the coming year, work that has already been done in this committee. We hope to see some of that legislation come to fruition. 
   I do want to speak specifically, Madam Speaker, to the concerns that I see in the State of Texas. And it may be symbolic of many States, particularly large States that have a very large penal system and a criminal justice system, if you will, or incarceration rate, and say that this legislation, in addition to reporting or requiring reporting of the deaths and suggesting the ineligibility for funds, which I think is an important statement, some instances of holding the particular jurisdictional head responsible for some of, in this instance, the deaths of individuals held in their particular facilities. 
   For example, about 3 weeks ago, in Houston, an individual was seen being neck-choked by a custodian in the Harris County jail in Harris County in Houston, Texas, and subsequently that inmate lost their life. This has been an increasing occurrence in the Harris County jail. And certainly there have been occurrences in the whole State system, but we have a county jail system which people are either held for trial or either they are actually serving their time there, and in the last decade we've had 106 deaths, plus, in the Harris County jail. Many of them have come about through the inability to secure medicine, to secure medical care. One instance is an individual in his own pool of blood, and the, if you will, caretaker, the guard, was asked to get relief and he said, What do you expect for me to do, get a Band-Aid? 
   So in some instances the deaths are caused because of such horrific occurrences, such egregious occurrences that  there seems to be a necessity for additional penalties. So I would rise to support this initiative, H.R. 3971, for the good work that it has already done, look forward to working with the chairperson of the subcommittee and the full committee Chair as we move toward the Senate to ensure that this bill, in and of itself, becomes law, because I think it's an important statement, but also it's a statement that saves lives. 
   It is so tragic to hear from wives and mothers, fathers of those incarcerated. These individuals have families. And I know that the existence or the presence that they have in the jail system means that there have been charges. Some of them in the local jails are being held for trial, so, therefore, they have not been convicted. We owe, as a civilized Nation, the kind of incarcerated presence that allows people to live, to be tried by the judicial system, but to allow them to live unless rendered another judgment by that system. So I think it is key that we look at whether or not the actions are egregious as we proceed to report on or receive reports made by our State Attorney General and others.  
    Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3971, the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Virginia, Representative Bobby Scott. This important legislation will require that any State that receives certain criminal justice assistance grants will be accountable to report the treatment of inmates to both the Attorney General and to Congress. 
    How a government treats its detainees is a critical test for a nation's civility and maturity. How we treat detainees, especially the most vulnerable among them--detainees with medical conditions, be it pre-existing or one developed after they have been taken into custody--is an important measure of how humane our entire justice system is. 
    In the mid-1980s researcher and activist scrutiny of the death rate in the Nation's jails and prisons began to emerge. The research focused on criticism of jail and prison conditions from the 1960s to the 1980s. Studies such as the ``National Study of Jail Suicides: Seven Years Later,'' by Lindsay M. Hayes and Joseph R. Rowan in 1988, that examined the death rate in jails and prisons found very little reporting of the circumstances surrounding the deaths of prisoners. In fact by 1986, only 25 States and the District of Columbia even had jail inspection units. Moreover, even the States that did report deaths differed on basic reporting standards. For example, jurisdictions differed on the definition of ``custody,'' which made it difficult to determine whether a prisoner had died during arrest, in a jail before trial, or post conviction. 
   The insufficient data and the lack of uniformity of the data collected made oversight of prisoner safety woefully inadequate. However, the study brought to light the potential that oversight had for improving conditions. The authors found that in the 1970s when there was little or no focus on deaths in custody, it had been unusual for a jail to be sued for negligence when a prisoner died in custody. But by the 1980s it was unusual for a jail not to be sued. The interest in oversight that emerged in the 1980s had shed light on conditions in state and local jails and began a rising tide of wrongful death litigation. The increasing litigation forced some measure of accountability and conditions somewhat improved. Moreover, activism and news of the litigation spurred media interest, which shed further light on conditions. 
   In 1995, after conducting a 1-year investigation, the Asbury Park Press of New Jersey ran a series of award-winning 
    editorials that brought the seriousness of the lack of reporting to the Nation's attention. Among the examples the Asbury Park Press highlighted was the story of Elmer Johnson of Charleston, MO. Mr. Johnson died in a jail cell after he was arrested for ``failing to obey a police officer.'' The coroner ruled Mr. Johnson's death a suicide but evidence to the contrary raised doubts. The editorials went on to detail abuses including racism, overzealous police interrogations, coverups and general police incompetence, which prompted congressional action. 
   Congress has a responsibility to investigate this issue and call for reforms in order to ensure that dignity and respect for all human beings in our immigration detention system is preserved. 
   Following successive bills being introduced by Representative Scott of Virginia and Representative Hutchinson of Arkansas in several Congresses, the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2000 was passed. The law required States receiving grants to comply with reporting requirements established by the Attorney General. Since the enactment of the act, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, BJS, has compiled a number of statistics detailing not only the circumstances of prisoner deaths but the rates of deaths in prisons vs. jails and the rates of deaths based on the sizes of the various facilities. 
   With the detailed statistical data, policy makers, both State and Federal, can make informed policy judgments about the treatment of prisoners, leading to great success in lowering the prisoner death rate. In fact, since the focus on deaths in custody emerged in the mid-1980s, the latest BJS report, dated August 2005, shows a 64 percent decline in suicides and a 93 percent decline in the homicide rate, which suggests that oversight measures such as the Deaths in Custody Reporting Act play an important role in ensuring the safety and security of prisoners who are in the custody of State facilities. 
   However, no actual study has been conducted to ascertain whether there is indeed a cause and effect between the oversight and decreasing death rate, and H.R. 2908 contained no provision to fund such a study. Therefore, to ascertain whether the cause and effect exists and how to make the most effective use of the statistical data, my good friend and colleague, Chairman Scott and Ranking Member Forbes have introduced H.R. 3971, the Death in Custody Act of 2007, of which I am a proud cosponsor. 
   This revised legislation is imperative to ensuring that there is justice within our justice system. H.R. 3971 includes all aspects of H.R. 2908 but also authorizes $500,000 for a study to determine whether the strengthened oversight has in fact led to or at least assisted the decreasing death rate among prisoners. H.R. 3971 is thus an improvement over H.R. 2908 in that with analysis accompanying the statistical data, we can make yet further informed decisions about policy and oversight. 
   Congress has a responsibility to investigate this issue and call for reforms in order to ensure that dignity and respect for all human beings in our immigration detention system is preserved. This legislation will hold States responsible to report to the Attorney General on a quarterly basis regarding the death of any person who is under arrest or is in the process of being arrested, en route to incarceration, or incarcerated in State or local facilities. It furthermore imposes penalties on States that fail to comply with such reporting requirements and consequently will ensure that both the Attorney General and the Congress stay informed on the deaths of any and all persons in custody. 
   I hope that all of my colleagues will join me in supporting the Death in Custody Act of 2007. Passage of H.R. 3971 would be the start of a long overdue process to eliminate unnecessary mistreatment of prisoners.  
   Might I just quickly acknowledge H.R. 3992, with the indulgence of the Speaker, to applaud the, hoping, passage of this legislation that deals with mental health. And let me just say one small point about the mental health circumstance, and that is that the crisis of mental health is seen across America. There are so many circumstances where individuals suffering from severe schizophrenia and others are caught in the criminal justice system, or unfortunately are called to the home and confront the law enforcement system as opposed to the mental health system, and that is before, of course, these individuals are incarcerated. This has to do with offenders who are suffering from mental illness, but I wanted to at least speak to the point that those who don't get to the system because they are confronted through the police system and unfortunately will lose their lives. What do elderly persons do when a son or daughter is suffering from mental illness and, unfortunately, has a breakdown in the house and reacts violently? It is to call the police. 
   And so in addition to this very fine bill that deals with improving mental health services for offenders so that when they come out they are ready to adjust to the society in which they return, we also want to look forward to the idea of providing resources for training of law enforcement that we've discussed extensively in our subcommittee on crime to help these people be advisedly trained to deal with this. 
   I cite as an example the desire by our local jurisdiction to, or the request being made by our local jurisdiction, to pay an extra incentive fee for those police officers that would take mental health training so that they could be on a team, a task force to be called out when that would occur. Unfortunately, the overall response by the city government was not enough money. I think we should have enough money to save lives and, hopefully, innovative legislation like H.R. 3992 sets the pace for those new and innovative ideas on addressing the question of mental illness among offenders who are incarcerated, but also that we address many of  the other questions that hopefully we'll have the opportunity to address. 
   So it is my distinct pleasure to be able to rise to support the underlying bill, H.R. 3971, and as well the previous bill, H.R. 3992. And I thank the chairman for his leadership. And I think the criminal justice system will be better for the passage of these two initiatives.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3992, the Mentally III Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Virginia, Representative Robert Scott. This bipartisan legislation is designed to increase public safety by enabling coordination between the criminal justice and mental health care systems to increase treatment among this segment of the population. 
   The enormous growth in the national prison population has intensified the problems presented by the needs of mentally ill inmates. Frequently, mentally ill defendants are inappropriately placed into criminal or juvenile corrections facilities, and the harmful impact that this has on the individual and society is reflected in increased recidivism rates, wasted administrative costs, and superfluous overcrowding of corrections facilities, among other things. Among the utmost dilemmas involved in managing the mentally ill prisoners is that correctional staffing is seldom at an adequate level to supervise and care for these prisoners, and correctional officers in many state prisons have never received training in working with the mentally ill. 
   The Bureau of Justice reported that in 1998 over 280,000 individuals in jail or prison and approximately 550,000 of those on probation had a mental impairment. The mentally ill are disproportionately represented in jails and prisons. Five percent of all Americans have a serious mental illness, but 16 to 20 percent of incarcerated individuals have a mental impairment. Any individual who is enrolled in a juris doctorate program is familiar with two key terms in criminal law, Actus Reas and Mens Rea. Actus Reas is associated with the guilty act, while Mens Rea is associated with the guilty mind. Both elements are required to achieve a successful conviction in our criminal law system. Mental health offenders may have committed the physical, guilty act, but they are incapable of having the mind capacity to commit the crime. The act does not make a person guilty unless the mind is also guilty. 
   The prevalence of the mentally ill in the criminal justice system has been the subject of many recent studies. The U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics reported last July that at least 16 percent of the U.S. prison population is seriously mentally ill. The highest rate of reported serious mental illness is among white female inmates, at 29 percent. For white females age 24 or younger, this level rises to almost 40 percent. The American Jail Association estimates that 600,000 to 700,000 people suffering from serious mental illness are being booked into jail each year. 
   The National Alliance for the Mentally III reports that on any given day, at least 284,000 schizophrenic and manic depressive individuals and manic depressive individuals are incarcerated, 
   while only 187,000 seriously mentally ill individuals are in mental health facilities. Additionally, there are approximately 547,800 seriously mentally ill people who are currently on probation. These statistics seem to indicate that the mentally ill are unjustifiably burdening the criminal justice system. 
   There is a dire need for resources that will provide vital resolutions to the crisis, expand diversion programs, community-based treatment, re-entry services, and improved treatment during incarceration. The reauthorization of the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act of 2004 recognizes that true partnerships between the mental health and criminal and juvenile corrections systems and between the Federal and State Governments are needed to meet these challenges. Indeed, this bill requires that Federal funds authorized under this program be supplemented with contributions from the States, local governments, and tribal organizations. 
   Madam Speaker, Congress has an obligation to legislate to protect the community from those who become aggressive or violent because of mental illness. We also have a responsibility to see that the offender receives the proper treatment for his or her illness. Far too often, mental illness goes undiagnosed, and many in our prison system would do better in alternative settings designed to handle their particular needs. 
   In Texas, past treatment of mentally ill offenders illustrates the need for legislation such as H.R. 3992. Senior U.S. District Judge William Wayne Justice, who is experienced in dealing with mentally ill prisoners in Texas, ruled in 1980 that the Texas prison system is unconstitutional and placed it under Federal control for 30 years. In Judge Justice's estimation, the Texas laws that apply to the mentally ill ``lack compassion and emphasize vengeance.'' KPFT news reported him as having said,  
   We have allowed the spirit of vengeance such unrivaled sway in our dealings with those who commit crime that we have ceased to consider properly whether we have taken adequate account of the role that mental impairment may play in the determination of moral responsibility. As a result, we punish those who we cannot justly blame. Such result is not, I believe worthy of a civil society.  
   This legislation in an important first step towards restructuring a system that has operated in a disjointed and unsympathetic manner for far too long. We must continue to make this legislation adequately effective to preserve the lives of defendants who are actually victims. 
   I am proud to support this legislation and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation and calling for the appropriate treatment and recognition of mentally ill offenders.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MORTGAGE REFORM AND ANTI-PREDATORY LENDING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from North Carolina, Representative Brad Miller. This important legislation will address and reform the mortgage lending processes ``to avert a recurrence of the current situation with rising defaults and foreclosures, especially in the sub-prime market.'' 
   Mr. Chairman, it is essential that this Congress protects the needs of American families and nothing is more imperative than ensuring that all people have a home. Recent studies have reported that 92 percent of the American population has at some point feared being homeless and this legislation is an important step in alleviating those fears. The current lending crisis must be addressed. 
   The Federal Government must play an important role in revitalizing and restoring opportunities for Americans to reach the American dream of owning a home. One of the major contributors of the affordable housing shortage is the sub-prime lending crisis that has caused serious negative economic and social consequences that resulted from too little regulation. Because of the lack of regulation by the Federal Government, many loans were accompanied by fraud, inadequate information and other failures of responsible marketing. Foreclosure rates 
   are at 14 percent and are rising at an alarming rate and homeowners across America are losing their homes. Throughout the country, homeowners are surprised to find out that their monthly payments are spiking and they are struggling to make these increasingly high payments. 
   The sub-prime mortgage crisis has impacted families and communities across the country. Home foreclosure filings rose to 1.2 million in 2006--a 42 percent jump--due to rising mortgage bills and a slowing housing market. In Iowa, 3,445 families experienced foreclosure last year, up 64 percent from 2005. 
   Nationally, as many as 2.4 million sub-prime borrowers have either lost their homes or could lose them in the next few years. 
   The Democratic-led House Financial Services Committee has been intently focused on this and other issues and is working toward a balanced solution that helps stabilize the mortgage market, stops abuses, preserves access to credit, and aids stable homeownership. 
   Creating more affordable housing opportunities will increase more job opportunities for the people of Houston and Harris County. We hope that an increase in affordable housing and job opportunities will also reduce the high rates of homelessness among Houston residents. As you may know: 
   Houston's homeless population increased to approximately 14,000 in 2005 before Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
   Hurricane evacuees remaining in the Houston area could result in the homeless population increasing by some 23,000 to 30,000. 
   Houston's homeless population includes an estimated 28 percent of American Veterans.  
   Some 59 percent became homeless because of job loss. 
   A full 10 percent of the city's homeless are believed to be able to return to self-sufficiency with 12-18 months of assistance and affordable housing. 
   Shelter and housing for Houston's homeless currently is reported at around 4,235 beds and or units, leaving 10,000 on the streets. 
   I have cosponsored a number of bills to address the housing crisis in this country. In the 109th Congress I cosponsored H.R. 
   1182, the Prohibit Predatory Lending Act, and H.R. 1994, the Predatory Mortgage Lending Reduction Act. I will continue to support legislation to address the housing crisis facing the people of this country. 
   This important piece of legislation will ``create a licensing system for residential mortgage loan originators, establish a minimum standard requiring that borrowers have a reasonable ability to repay a loan, and will attach a limited liability to secondary market securitizers.'' This is extremely significant in the sense that it will ensure that Americans who dream of home ownership will not engage in loans that they will be unable to repay. It will enhance and expand consumer protections against ``high-cost loans.'' It will protect renters of foreclosed homes and establish through the Department of Housing and Urban Development an Office of Housing Counseling that will ensure that consumers will be fully aware of all possible avenues. 
   While this legislation is a step in the right direction, we must ensure that this legislation does not hurt those who it is intended to protect. We must ensure that families with a less-than-perfect credit history are not denied outright their dream of home-ownership and that lenders do not abuse their discretionary powers. This legislation creates a standard licensing system for residential mortgage loan originators that will ensure a consistent rubric for loans and protect American families from would-be predatory lenders. It further expands consumer protections from high-cost loans by: prohibiting the financing of points and fees; prohibiting excessive fees for payoff information, modifications, or late payments; prohibiting practices that increase the risk of foreclosure, such as balloon payments, encouraging a borrower to default, and call provisions, and requiring pre-loan counseling. This is an unprecedented step forward for hard working Americans with the dream of home-ownership and I applaud this legislation for this significant first step towards helping Americans realize their dreams. 
   Finally, let me acknowledge the concerns of strong advacates for the housing needs of the vulnerable--ACORN and the NAACP, among others, and I look to working on changes in this legislation as the bill moves to address their concerns. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MORTGAGE REFORM AND ANTI-PREDATORY LENDING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished Chair for yielding the time. And let me acknowledge in this very short time the importance of this legislation, and particularly, its importance to my community in Houston. 
   The most important point that I would like to emphasize is the issue of the standards being put in place for mortgage brokers. I happen to be very happy that standards are preempting State standards in this instance, because Texas needs that kind of regulation. 
   Let me also take note of the fact that I know Mr. Watt was intending to bring forward an amendment regarding reverse mortgages, and may submit it or not. But knowing that I just recently dealt with a constituent, an elderly constituent who suffered from a reverse mortgage loan, she utilized the reverse mortgage, and now she can't find any of those that provided that loan and cannot afford to pay it back and she is about to lose her house. So, with the numbers of homeless in our community and with the numbers of homeless across America, the fact that we are talking about creating a better housing market and also creating jobs as we go forward, this is a constructive bill. 
   I would ask my colleagues to consider the fact that affordable housing only comes from a regulated and positive market. I like the underlying amendment, but I think it is important to set standards for mortgage brokers and to ensure that there is consumer protection in housing for those most vulnerable. 
   And I appreciate, in particular, that this bill has created a Office of Housing Counseling to help new homeowners. And might I, as I close, Madam Chairman, just indicate that I support the concerns of ACORN and the NAACP and look forward to those issues being corrected as we make our way to conference. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Putnam). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RESTORE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank both chairmen, Chairman Conyers for his leadership and Chairman Reyes. In the month of August, I stood here and shredded paper to reflect that the vote we took on that bill was really a destruction of the Constitution. I am very glad to be able to stand here today to hold the Constitution sacredly in my hand and to indicate that this bill does, in fact, offer a restoration of the civil liberties of Americans but yet does not protect one single terrorist. 
   It is a bill that avoids reverse targeting of Americans. But it is a bill that provides the opportunity that if there was a pending threat against the United States, the Attorney General, the National Security Director, and three others could, in fact, prevent a terrorist act from occurring in the United States. This restores justice and it protects the American people.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3773, introduced by my colleague Mr. CONYERS. Had the Bush administration and the Republican-dominated 109th Congress acted more responsibly in the 2 preceding years, we would not be in the position of debating legislation that has such a profound impact on national security and on American values and civil liberties in the crush of exigent circumstances. More often that not, it is true, as the saying goes, that haste makes waste. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation before us is intended to fill a gap in the Nation's intelligence gathering capabilities identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell, by amending the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. It gives our intelligence professionals the tools they need to legally monitor suspect foreigners outside the United States, while protecting the fundamental rights of Americans at home. 
   Nearly two centuries ago, Alexis de Tocqueville observed that the reason democracies invariably prevail in any martial conflict is because democracy is the governmental form that best rewards and encourages those traits that are indispensable to martial success: initiative, innovation, resourcefulness, and courage. 
   The United States would do well to heed de Tocqueville and recognize that the best way to win the war on terror is to remain true to our democratic traditions. If it retains its democratic character, no nation and no loose confederation of international villains will defeat the United States in the pursuit of its vital interests. A major challenge facing the Congress today is to ensure that in waging its war on terror, the administration does not succeed in winning passage of legislation that will weaken the Nation's commitment to its democratic traditions. 
   This is why the upcoming debate over congressional approval authorizing the administration to conduct terrorist surveillance on U.S. soil is a matter of utmost importance. I offer some thoughts on the principles that should inform that debate. 
   In the waning hours before the August recess, the House acceded to the Bush administration's request and approved the woefully misnamed ``Protect America Act,'' which gives the Federal Government enlarged powers to conduct electronic surveillance of American citizens under the guise of conducting surveillance of foreign terrorists. 
   Mr. Speaker, FISA has served the Nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing. Given the exigent circumstances claimed by the administration, I am prepared to support a number of temporary changes to FISA legislation, provided that they follow certain principles. 
   First, I am prepared to accept temporarily eliminating the need to obtain a court order for foreign-to-foreign communications that pass through the United States. But I do insist upon individual warrants, based on probable cause, when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. The Attorney General must still be required to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, but the FISA Court should not be allowed to issue a ``basket warrant'' without making individual determinations about foreign surveillance. There should be an initial emergency authority so that international surveillance can begin while the warrants are being considered by the Court. And there must also be congressional oversight, requiring the Department of Justice Inspector General to conduct an audit every 60 days of U.S. person communications intercepted under these warrants, to be submitted to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees. 
   This legislation allows the interception of electronic communications between foreigners outside of the United States without a warrant and permits the director of national intelligence and the attorney general to seek ``blanket'' warrants to intercept communications of people reasonably believed to be outside the United States, even if such communication happens to involve ``U.S. persons.'' Wiretap surveillance could be conducted for 7 days before a warrant must be sought, and the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance court would have to act on the application for a blanket warrant within 15 days. 
   This legislation has many other important provisions. It affirms that FISA is the exclusive source of legal authority for conducting electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence. Crucially, it does not grant amnesty to telecommunications companies for any past violations of law. Finally, it gives the FISA Court more oversight authority and terminates the authorization to conduct foreign surveillance on U.S. soil after 2 years. 
   In all candor, Mr. Speaker, I must restate my firm conviction that when it comes to the track record of this President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still nothing on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs, or the trustworthiness of this administration, to indicate that they require any legislative response, other than to reaffirm the exclusivity of FISA and insist that it be followed. This could have been accomplished in the 109th Congress by passing H.R. 5371, the ``Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA'' Act, LISTEN Act, which I have cosponsored with the then ranking members of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, Mr. CONYERS and Ms. HARMAN.  
   The Bush administration has not complied with its legal 
   obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important; (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people. 
   Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation before us is necessary. It is incumbent on the Congress to act expeditiously to amend existing laws so that they achieve the only legitimate goals of a terrorist surveillance program, which is to ensure that Americans are secure in their persons, papers and effects, but terrorists throughout the world are made insecure. The best way to achieve these twin goals is to follow the rule of law. And the exclusive law to follow with respect to authorizing foreign surveillance gathering on U.S. soil is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. It is my sincere hope that my colleagues will join together today in enacting important and much needed reforms to FISA. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support the Manager's Amendment to this legislation. This amendment clarifies that nothing in this act can be construed to prohibit lawful surveillance necessary to prevent Osama Bin Laden, al Qaeda, or any other terrorist organization from attacking the U.S., any U.S. person, or any ally of the U.S.; to ensure the safety and security of our Armed Forces or other national security or intelligence personnel; or to protect the U.S., any U.S. person, or any U.S. ally from the threat of WMD or any other threats to national security. 
   Mr. Speaker, even as we work to protect our Nation, we must remember the fundamental need to protect Americans. At bottom, America is its people connected to each other, and to past and future generations, as in Abraham Lincoln's unforgettable phrase, by ``the mystic chords of memory stretching from every heart and hearthstone.'' America, in other words, is Americans coming together in a community of shared values, ideals and principles. It is those shared values that hold us together. It is our commitment to those values that the terrorists wish to break because that is the only way they can win. 
   Thus, the way forward to victory in the war on terror is for this country to redouble its commitment to the values that every American  will risk his or her life to defend. It is only by preserving our attachment to these cherished values that America will remain forever the home of the free, the land of the brave and the country we love. 
   H.R. 3773 does just that. It balances the interest in protecting the Nation from terrorists who would do us harm and, at the same time, ensures that the constitutional rights of American citizens and persons in America are not abridged. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HEALTH CARE ISSUES AFFECTING MINORITY COMMUNITIES IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the gentlewoman from California for convening us this evening and providing such leadership to the issue of health disparities. And also I believe it is enormously important to emphasize the collaborative work between the Asian Pacific Caucus, of which I am a member, the Hispanic Caucus, of which I am an adopted daughter, and the Congressional Black Caucus. 
   I am also very pleased to be on the floor with our chair of the Congressional Black Caucus health brain trust, which I have been a Member on, I believe, for as long as I can remember, to join us for what is really an indictment of American society. It is an indictment of this government, frankly, and the correction that is due is long overdue. That is the whole question of health disparities. 
   We have heard an eloquent presentation by Hilda Solis on the question of diabetes. We heard from the distinguished gentlewoman from Guam who spoke about the Pacific illnesses that impact the Asian Pacific community, and I rise to speak holistically about the health crisis in America that does not address the longstanding question of disparities in health care. 
   I am reminded of an African American gentleman in a Florida hospital just a few years ago who was to go into surgery and hopefully had all the T's crossed and I's dotted. Lo and behold, the wrong leg was amputated. He obviously suffered from, as we call in our community, sugar diabetes, and rather than be cured, unfortunately, his situation was made worse by amputating the wrong leg. 
   There is extensive documentation that indicates that the question of health access or access to health care falls heavily on minorities, and particularly African Americans. In fact, there is data to suggest that African Americans, when given access to the Nation's hospitals and other health facilities, that the care is less than it is for other populations. That, in itself, does not speak to the greatness of this Nation and the fact that this Nation is considered a world power.     
   If you want to speak to inequities of language, you will find in Hispanic communities, in particular, that before we started moving on community health clinics and really making a push to have culturally sensitive treatment, you will find in many instances that there was a lack of ability to communicate with Hispanic populations because of the language barrier. These, my friends, were citizens, people who were permanent legal residents, who could not get the proper health care. 
   Today, I rise to acknowledge the importance of National Minority Health Month, but really to give us a challenge that we maybe have come this far by faith, as many of us have been known to say, but we have a mighty long way. 
   Let me just share some of the indictments of poor health care in America. African American adolescents accounted for 65 percent of new AIDS cases reported among teens in 2002, although they only account for 15 percent of American teenagers. 
   We also recognize that the leading cause of death of young African American males between the ages of 15 and 24, that cause is not disease or accidental death, but homicide. 
   We recognize, as has been already noted, that obesity is an increasing dilemma for America. It certainly is a dilemma for minority populations and African Americans. 
   Let me express appreciation for joining Congressman Donald Payne a few weeks ago for a very exciting conference on obesity, so much so that it was contagious. Those of us, as Members of Congress who were able to attend, with the University of New Jersey medical and dental school, are going to repeat that conference around the country. I know that we in Houston look forward to hosting a conference on obesity. 
   A few weeks ago, the Congressional Children's Caucus hosted, with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, a briefing on obesity, where we focused on what happens to obese children and obese infants as well. 
   Just a couple of days ago, I believe Friday, I was very gratified to participate with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation and the CBC Health Brain Trust on the status of African American men, questions of mental health, the question of homicide, HIV/AIDS, domestic violence, abuse, and the preservation of the good health of African American men. 
   Every time I rise to speak about this question, I pay tribute to my father,  my late father, a man who worked hard for his family, who believed that no job was beneath him to support his family, a man who was a brilliant artist. But because of segregation, the work that he had, he was, if you will, replaced when men came back who happened to be white, from World War II. 
   But even with all of those trials and tribulations, he kept his hand involved in art, and in the later part of his life, he got another chance to work 10 years for one of the comic book companies in New York. Who would have thought that he would have been a victim of prostate cancer. When I say a victim, not diagnosed, so much so that ultimately it metastasized to his lung and his brain. My most visual memory of him was him laying in a fetal position in a hospital bed, way before the time, and he died of that dastardly disease. 
   But I think one of the challenges was that in the male line of our family, that cancer is prevalent, but not being diagnosed, or having access to health care that would inform us, we saw uncles pass without really knowing what they were dying of. 
   So today, now, 2007, a tribute to my father, Ezra Jackson, and relatives across America who have died undiagnosed, whose families were not aware of, maybe, the DNA or their characteristics for these diseases, because of the poor access to health care. We stand today, one, wanting a universal access to health care system; two, passing the Congressional Black Caucus and the bill that went to the Senate, dealing with disparities in health care, that, as I understand, Dr. Christensen, we never got passed. We need to get it passed in this Congress. 
   Then I would just simply say that each of us must hold forums in our districts on the question of disparities in health care. As I do the obesity one, we look forward to putting together an advisory committee on black males that talks about health care as well. 
   Let me close by simply saying that I could recount for you any number of statistics on health care. I think my colleagues have accurately pronounced these challenges. But let me give a roll call to show you where we have these devastating, if you will, disparities, so that you won't think that we are limited, hypertension, high cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, gall bladder disease, osteoarthritis, asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnea and other respiratory problems, cancer, which is breast, colon and endometrial. 
   We expect that we will do a better job of trying, if you will, of trying to improve the health conditions in America. We must do so. It is a civil rights issue. I want to thank you so much for highlighting and provoking us to be part of the change of creating opportunities for better health for all Americans, and particularly those experiencing these health disparities.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor and recognize the importance of National Minority Health Month. National Minority Health Month is a very important time to bring awareness to the many health concerns facing minority communities. My colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I understand the very difficult challenges facing us in the form of huge health disparities among our community and other minority communities. We will continue to seek solutions to those challenges. It is imperative for us to improve the prospects for living long and healthy lives and fostering an ethic of wellness in African-American and other minority communities. I wish to pay special tribute to my colleague, Congresswoman Donna Christensen, the Chair of the CBC Health Braintrust, for organizing an important conference last week on the health and wellness of African-American males. I thank all of my CBC colleagues who been toiling in the vineyards for years developing effective public policies and securing the resources needed to eradicate racial and gender disparities in health and wellness. 
   Let me focus these brief remarks on what I believe are three of the greatest impediments to the health and wellness of the African-American community and other minority communities. The first challenge is combating the scourge of HIV/AIDS. Second, we must reverse the dangerous trend of increasing obesity in juveniles and young adults. Finally, we must confront the leading cause of death of young African-American males between the ages of 15-24; that cause is not disease or accidental death, but homicide. 
   HIV/AIDS
   In 1981, HIV/AIDS was thought by most Americans to be a new, exotic, and mysterious disease which seemed to inflict primarily gay white males in New York City and San Francisco. But since then we have learned that in the America of 2006, AIDS is overwhelmingly a black and brown disease. And that means that we have to assume the major responsibility for finding the solutions to rid our communities of this scourge. Consider the magnitude of the challenge confronting us: 
   HIV/AIDS is now the leading cause of death among African-Americans ages 25 to 44--ahead of heart disease, accidents, cancer, and homicide. 
   The rate of AIDS diagnoses for African-Americans in 2003 was almost 10 times the rate for whites. 
   Between 2000 and 2003, the rate of HIV/AIDS among African-American males was seven times the rate for white males and three times the rate for Hispanic males. 
   African-American adolescents accounted for 65 percent of new AIDS cases reported among teens in 2002, although they only account for 15 percent of American teenagers. 
   Billions and billions of private and federal dollars have been poured into drug research and development to treat and ``manage'' infections, but the complex life cycle and high mutation rates of HIV strains have only marginally reduced the threat of HIV/AIDS to global public health. 
   Although the drugs we currently have are effective in managing infections and reducing mortality by slowing the progression to AIDS in an individual, they do little to reduce disease prevalence and prevent new infections. It simply will not suffice to rely upon drugs to manage infection. We can make and market drugs until we have 42 million individually tailored treatments, but so long as a quarter of those infected 
   remain detached from the importance of testing, we have no chance of ending or even ``managing'' the pandemic. 
   Currently, the only cure we have for HIV/AIDS is prevention. While we must continue efforts to develop advanced treatment options, it is crucial that those efforts are accompanied by dramatic increases in public health education and prevention measures. 
   Learning whether one is infected with HIV before the virus has already damaged the immune system represents perhaps the greatest opportunity for preventing and treating HIV infection. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), between 2000 and 2003, 56 percent of late testers--defined as those who were diagnosed with full-blown AIDS within one year after learning they were HIV-positive--were African-Americans, primarily African-American males. 
   African-Americans males with HIV have tended to delay being tested because of psychological or social reasons, which means they frequently are diagnosed with full-blown AIDS soon after learning they are infected with HIV. This is the main reason African American males with AIDS do not live as long as persons with HIV/AIDS from other racial/ethnic groups. 
   Researchers have identified two unequal tracks of HIV treatment and care in the United States. In the first, or ``ideal track,'' a person discovers she or he is HIV-infected, seeks medical care, has regular follow-ups, and follows a regimen without complications. Persons in this track can now in most cases lead a normal life. 
   But some individuals follow a second, more-dangerous track. These individuals come to the hospital with full-blown AIDS as their initial diagnosis. They may have limited access to care because of finances or because other social or medical problems interfere. The vast majority of deaths from HIV/AIDS are among this second group. And the persons making up this group are disproportionately African-American males. 
   I have strongly supported legislation sponsored by CBC members and others to give increased attention and resources to combating HIV/AIDS, including the Ryan White CARE Act. I support legislation to reauthorize funding for community health centers (H.R. 5573, Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006), including the Montrose and Fourth Ward clinics in my home city of Houston, and to provide more nurses for the poor urban communities in which many of these centers are located (H.R. 1285, Nursing Relief Act for Disadvantaged Areas). I have also authored legislation aimed to better educate our children (H.R. 2553, Responsible Education About Life Act in 2006) and eliminate health disparities (H.R. 3561, Healthcare Equality and Accountability Act and the Good Medicine Cultural Competency Act in 2003, H.R. 90). 
   Twenty-five years from now, I hope that we will not be discussing data on prevalence and mortality of HIV/AIDS among African-American males, but rather how our sustained efforts at elimination have come into fruition. But for us to have that discussion, we must take a number of actions now. We must continue research on treatments and antiretroviral therapies, as well as pursue a cure. We absolutely have to ensure that everyone who needs treatment receives it. And we simply must increase awareness of testing, access to testing, and the accuracy of testing. Because we  will never be able to stop this pandemic if we lack the ability to track it. 
   African-Americans males are eleven times as likely to be infected with HIV/AIDS, so we must make eleven times the effort to educate them until HIV/AIDS becomes a memory. If we do not, then the African-American male will indeed become an endangered species. 
   When it comes to the scourge of HIV/AIDS, the African-American community is at war. It is a war we absolutely have to win because at stake is our very survival. With HIV/AIDS we need not wonder whether the enemy will follow us. The enemy is here now. But so is the army that can vanquish the foe. It is us. It is up to us. For if not us, who? If not now, when? If we summon the faith of our ancestors, the courage of our great grandparents, and the determination of our parents, we will march on until victory is won. 
   OBESITY 
   Although the obesity rates among all African-Americans are alarming, as Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am especially concerned about the childhood obesity epidemic among African-American youth. More than 40 percent of African-American teenagers are overweight, and nearly 25 percent are obese. 
   Earlier this year, my office in concert with the office of Congressman TOWNS and the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, held a widely- attended issue forum entitled, ``Childhood Obesity: Factors Contributing to Its Disproportionate Prevalence in Low Income Communities.'' At this forum, a panel of professionals from the fields of medicine, academia, nutrition, and the food industry discussed the disturbing increasing rates of childhood obesity in minority and low-income communities, and the factors that are contributing to the prevalence in these communities. 
   What we know is that African-American youth are consuming less nutritious foods such as fruits and vegetables and are not getting enough physical exercise. This combination has led to an epidemic of obesity, which directly contributes to numerous deadly or life-threatening diseases or conditions, including the following: hypertension; dyslipidemia (high cholesterol or high triglyceride levels); Type 2 diabetes; coronary heart disease; stroke; gallbladder disease; osteoarthritis; asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnea, and other respiratory problems; and cancer (breast, colon, and endometrial). 
   When ethnicity and income are considered, the picture is even more troubling. African-American youngsters from low-income families have a higher risk for obesity than those from higher-income families. Since the mid-1970s, the prevalence of overweight and obesity has increased sharply for both adults and children. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CCDC), among African-American male adults aged 20-74 years the prevalence of obesity increased from 15.0 percent in 1980 survey to 32.9 percent in the 2004. 
   There were also increases in overweight among children and teens. For children aged 2-5 years, the prevalence of overweight increased from 5.0 percent to 13.9 percent; for those aged 6-11 years, prevalence increased from 6.5 percent to 18.8 percent; and for those aged 12-19 years, prevalence increased from 5.0 percent to 17.4 percent. 
   As the debate over how to address the rising childhood obesity epidemic continues, it is especially important to explore how attitudes, environmental factors, and public policies influence contribute to obesity among African-American males. Some of these contributing factors are environmental, others are cultural, still others are economic, and others still may be lack of education or information. But one thing is clear: we must find ways to remove them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentlelady from California (Ms. Watson) for her dedicated commitment and Mr. Calvert, two Californians who have come together on this sad but really commemorative time. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to lift my voice a little bit, because there are some things that we say in the church about home-going services or memorials, is that they are, in fact, a celebration of life. I clearly believe that as I have listened to my colleagues, and as I will continue to listen to my colleagues, we really are celebrating Juanita Millender-McDonald's life. We are celebrating our friendship and how we care for her, how she cared for us. 
   My first remarks are that our mayor has fallen, the mayor of our city, the City of Congress, the comings and goings of Members and staff, traffic and various personnel, law enforcement. This was her love, as she first started as a ranking member of the House Administration Committee and then had the honor of being appointed by the new Speaker of the House, a woman, to be the chairwoman of the House Administration Committee. 
   But I do want to say, before I comment further, that Juanita had a bigger smile when she was around her husband, Jim, her five children and her grandchildren. She sparkled when she brought her grandchildren to the floor of the House and made sure that everybody knew those beautiful and lovely children who, in fact, seemed to have a very strong and proud bond with their grandmother. They were proud of this regal woman who came to the floor of the House as a Member of the United States Congress. 
   Juanita was a doer, and she used to often speak of her beginnings with a Baptist father, preacher, a close-knit family, and her deep roots in Birmingham, Alabama, knowing what a segregated South was all about, a segregated America. Though she fought against it, she didn't let it bring her down, discourage her. Off she went to California, and she became a true daughter of California, with all of the attributes that great State allows you to have. 
   She did things to make life better. She had a great sense of hope and spirit about her women's march against AIDS, and each year the numbers kept growing up and up and up. She would tell me, coming back, thousands of women marched against HIV/AIDS to find a cure, to stop the devastation in women. We were so proud when, for the first time, she was able to bring us together around women in the military. 
   The last time I was there, the curator of that museum said, you know, Juanita started this. We now have become so important because of Juanita. 
   Then, of course, she worked with the library and those workers over there. Juanita was someone who believed in getting things done, not for herself, but for others. 
   As I close, let me thank MARCY KAPTUR for giving this very special commemoration that has Nancy Pelosi's name on it, the votes that NANCY won by, MARCY's name as an elector or counter, tally person, and there is Juanita Millender-McDonald, who had, as her final work, the true integrity and transparency of elections all over America. Truly, we want to thank her, we love her. We love you, Juanita. This is a celebration of your life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNITED STATES-PERU TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - November 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 3688, the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Maryland, Representative HOYER. This piece of legislation amends the antiquated Trade Agreements Act of 1979, and while it represents an attempt to incorporate workers' rights and environmental concerns into trade legislation, I believe that it does not contain strong enough guarantees against labor violations and other human rights abuses. Madam Speaker, we cannot ignore the gross violations of labor rights allowed to persist by the Peruvian government or the loss of American jobs this legislation might entail. 
   The nation of Peru has made many strides forward in recent history. It has begun to move down the path of democracy, fighting off state-sponsored socialism, seen some government accountability to the judiciary, and entered into the global economy. 
   However, Peru has a long way still to come. Peru has yet to adopt and apply the 1998 International Labor Organization's Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, an obligation that serves as a condition for the current legislation. While this is a step in the right direction, it is more advisory than binding, requiring FTA nations to ``refer only'' to ILO Declarations, and will be incredibly difficult to enforce. 
   The Free Trade Agreement we are considering today calls on the Peruvian government to apply greater labor rights and environmental standards in order for the agreement to persist. Peru must adopt, maintain, and enforce laws relating to labor rights that meet ILO standards as stated in the ILO 1998 Declaration. This is a step forward, but to make it truly significant, the United States must adopt some sort of accountability mechanism in order to ensure compliance on the part of the Peruvian government. Until such accountability exists, I do not believe we should be approving this agreement. 
   The Peru FTA agreement further obligates the government of Peru to implement and enforce various environmental multilateral agreements to which Peru is already a part. This too has the potential to lead to a precarious situation. Peru is already a party to the mentioned multilateral environmental agreements and has failed to apply or enforce their obligations outlined therein, why would they change now? We must create incentives for our trade 
   partners to comply with international labor and environmental standards, and I fear there is much more to do in the case of Peru. 
   The United States-Peru trade agreement as it stands today allows Peruvian products tariff free entry into the United States while products from the United States are taxed upon their entry to Peru. This trade practice has been deeply detrimental to American workers who are consistently undercut by cheaper, tax-free, foreign labor, services, and products. Under the proposed the Peru FTA, products and services from the United States will no longer be muddled by the protections policies of the past, with 80 percent of goods being allowed tax-free entry into the Peruvian market immediately, with the remaining 20 percent gaining free entry over time. While this may prove beneficial to corporations within the United States, we must be careful that this trade policy does not benefit the wealthy few at the cost of both American and Peruvian workers. 
   A great deal of Americans worry about the effect this legislation will have on their job security. It is important to note that the Peru FTA does not pose a significant threat to American jobs, with trade from Peru not consisting of a heavy intensity and consequently not having any significant impact on the American economy. I acknowledge that we are engaged in a global economy and am eager to move forward in free trade agreements with nations throughout the world, however, I cannot overlook the threats this legislation poses. Since the era that began with the NAFTA agreement, over 3 million manufacturing jobs have been lost and while the Peruvian economy may not be large enough to have a ``significant'' impact upon the United States, I fear that the impact it will have will be enough to further harm the American worker who has already suffered a decrease in job security and wages. The American people elected this Congress to change the trajectory that the United States was on, and this legislation is more of the same foreign investment and procurement policy that the majority of American rejected after the inception of NAFTA and CAFTA. 
   This bill provides security in the sense that it gives United States the authority to administrate dispute settlement proceedings, arbitrate certain claims made against the United States, and enact specific tariff modifications. This bill does not hold the Peruvian government accountable, the United States' authority to arbitrate disputes and claims made against the United States will not be sufficient to ensure the protection of the Peruvian and American workers that this legislation will harm. The ability to protect American companies does not equate to meaningful security to the parties involved. 
   I applaud the efforts made by this legislation in ensuring worker rights within Peru, however, I believe it falls short of being comprehensive in a number of areas. Issues of worker rights abroad have been endemic within the United States since the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) as reports emerge of the horrific conditions of workers within the countries with whom we engage in trade. Urging Peru to ``refer'' to ILO standards will not ensure that American trade policy is not 
   meant merely to benefit the few multinational corporations and rather protects all our partners in today's globalized economy, including foreign laborers. The Peruvian people have been working hard to restore social justice and labor rights after the ruthless dictatorship of Former President Fujimori. We must be cautious not to undermine any organic social justice movements within Peru that has spent the last 6 years trying to get their Congress to pass the General Labor Law.  
   Beyond my concerns with this piece of legislation itself is a further concern about the intentions of this Administration. I do not believe we can trust the Bush Administration to enforce the labor and environmental provisions of this or any other FTA. We are not in a position to enter into any new FTA's at this time, I believe we must ensure the security of American economic lives before we rush into any new agreements. Furthermore, only yesterday, Peru's Labor Ministry declared a national mining sector strike as illegal. 
   This strike, headed by Peru's National Federation of Mining, Metallurgy, and Steel Workers, began Monday and was aimed at 7 pressuring the government to pass legislation ensuring increase rights and benefits of miners. Peru's Labor Ministry responded by ``ordering them back to work'' and declaring their strike illegal. No concessions have been made by the government and miners face being fired should they not return to work by the end of the week. This is not a government we can trust to uphold labor rights. 
   The world is now immersed in a globalized economy. We cannot go back in time, nor do we want to. We must work with what we are given now. The U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement is an important first attempt, however, we must continue to work to ensure that labor rights are universally acknowledged and environmental standards systemically upheld on a larger scale than this legislation entails. I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this legislation, and to call for still more to be done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2669, COLLEGE COST REDUCTION AND ACCESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Conference Report for H.R. 2669, the Education and Labor College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, the single largest investment in higher education since the GI Bill. This important legislation does far more than ease the burden of student loans for college graduates--it will make the American dream possible for low- and middle-income students, helping families pay for college. I would like to thank Chairman Miller for introducing the legislation, as well as his steadfast commitment to this important issue. May I also thank Speaker Pelosi for her visionary leadership in leading America in a new direction. I am proud to be part of a Democratic majority that delivers on its promises to the American people. 
   Mr. Speaker, in 21st century America, a college education is a critical investment toward individual success, as well as toward the strength of our nation. Higher education is associated with better health, greater wealth, and more vibrant civic participation, as well as national economic competitiveness in today's global environment. As the need for a college degree has grown, however, so has the cost of obtaining that education. The result is rising student debt. Students graduating often leave school with far more than knowledge and a degree; many face years of having their financial lives dictated by the burden of debt. Their choices of careers and jobs may be severely constrained by the necessity of repaying these loans. 
   This bill strengthens the middle class by making college more affordable: 6.8 million students who take out need-based federal student loans each year will see the interest rates on their loans halved over the next four years, saving the typical borrower (with $13,800 in need-based loan debt) $4,400 over the life of the loan, once fully implemented. With the recent sub-prime lending crisis and subsequent economic turmoil, the United States economy lost over 4,000 non-farm jobs in the month of August. More and more middle class students will be in need of assistance to turn their college dreams into a reality. This legislation makes student loan payments more manageable for borrowers by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15 percent of their discretionary income in loan repayments. It also allows borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years. 
   This Conference Report contains many important provisions that make significant strides toward making the dream of higher education a reality for more Americans than ever. It provides an increase in college aid by roughly $20 billion over the next five years, with no additional burden on American taxpayers. By cutting excessive federal subsidies to lenders, this legislation pays for itself. 
   This Conference Report contains a specific commitment to minority-serving institutions. It authorizes $510 million for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges, Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian institutions, and the newly designated Predominantly Black Institutions. These funds will work to ensure that students will not only enter college, but remain and graduate. About 2.3 million students attend minority-serving institutions, including 1/3 of all minority students who attend college. 
   This new investment is particularly critical for African-American students and their families. African-American students currently comprise about 12 percent of all undergraduate students. Many institutions have helped black students bridge ethnic-related economic barriers, making college education possible for underprivileged minorities. Among Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), which give African American students an opportunity to have an educational experience in a community in which they are a part of the majority, costs are also rising. This resolution would support many of these honorable institutions in their righteous deeds in educatIng our underprivileged students of color. 
   In addition, this bill encourages and rewards public service. Students who pursue careers as public school teachers will receive upfront tuition assistance of $4,000 per year, to a maximum of $16,000, 
   providing aid to at least 21,500 undergraduate and graduate students. This is particularly important, given that 23 percent of public college and 38 percent of private college graduates have student loan debt that is unmanageable on the starting salary of a teacher. By providing the guarantee of assistance, this bill is an important step toward ensuring that there is a highly qualified teacher in each of America's classrooms. 
   Similarly, public servants will receive complete loan forgiveness after ten years of service. This will assist our driven young people who want to serve their country in the military, law enforcement, or as first responders, firefighters, nurses, public defenders, prosecutors, and early childhood educators. It ensures that dedicated Americans will not be precluded from serving their country because of a preponderance of debt. 
   Mr. Speaker, I also support the Conference Report for H.R. 2669 because it will increase the maximum Pell Grant award by $1090 over the next five years to $5,400. It will also increase eligibility by raising the income threshold, allowing more students from more families to automatically qualify for grants. The Federal Pell Grant Program prides itself on providing need-based grants to low-income undergraduate and certain postbaccalaureate students to promote access to postsecondary education. These grants are particularly important for students of color, with 45 percent of African American and Hispanic students at four-year colleges depending on Pell grants, compared to 23 percent of all students. Approximately 4.5 million students currently depend on Pell Grants and ``over 70 percent of Pell Grant funds go to students from families with incomes of $20,000 a year or less.'' Increasing the maximum Pell Grant Award will expand racial and ethnic diversity in higher education institutions, benefiting not only the institutions, cultural background but it will also be a great learning experience for students to learn diverse cultural backgrounds different from their own. 
   In addition, the Conferene Report for H.R. 2669 cuts the interest rates on subsidized student loans in half from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over five years. Once fully implemented, this cut would save the typical borrower--with about $13,800 in need-based loan debt--$4,400 over the life of the loan. By cutting interest rates on federal loans, Congress can  save college graduates thousands of dollars over the life of their loans. Mr. Speaker, recent graduates, especially those of minority status with low to moderate incomes, must spend the vast majority of their salaries on necessities such as rent, health care, and food. For borrowers struggling to cover basic costs, student loan repayment can create a significant and measurable impact on their lives. 
   Crushing student debt also has societal consequences, according to a report by two highly respected economists, Drs. Saul Schwarz and Sandy Baum. The prospect of burdensome debt likely deters skilled and dedicated college graduates from entering and staying in important careers such as educating our nation's children and helping the country's most vulnerable populations. 
   To solve this problem and ensure that higher education remains within reach for all Americans, we need to increase need-based grant aid; make loan repayment fair and affordable; protect borrowers from usurious lending practices; and provide incentives for state governments and colleges to control tuition costs. H.R. 2669 is an important step in a new and right direction for America. 
   Last November, House Democrats promised a New Direction for America. This bill, the single largest investment to higher education, comes at no additional cost to American taxpayers, but brings extraordinary benefits for our nation. I am proud to be part of a Democratic majority that delivers on its promises to the American people. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of adoption of the Conference Report for H.R. 2669, the Education and Labor College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2669, COLLEGE COST REDUCTION AND ACCESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is the single largest investment in education since the GI Bill, and we know what the GI Bill did for the World War II generation. 
   Last month, the American people lost 4,000 jobs under this administration, and foreclosures are rising. The middle class needs relief. And this bill will cut interest rates in half of subsidized student loans over the next 4 years. It will allow borrowers to be able to not pay more than 15 percent on their loans. 
   In addition, the Pell Grant, something that has helped low income, students, and what all of my students ask about every single time I visit college campuses, will be raised to $490, and over 5 years more than $1,000. And then we will invest in America's most underserved communities, Hispanic-serving, Historically Black, Native Americans and other institutions in which the bill will invest $510 million to help students stay in school among other incentives. 
   This legislation helps our students graduate. It encourages public service. This bill is worth all of us voting for it. The middle class of America needs relief. This is a giant step forward in educating all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me first of all thank the toiling committee chaired by Chairman Conyers and Ranking Member Smith. This has been a long journey. As a new member of the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, let me also thank both the chairman and ranking member for a tough, tough challenge. 
   It is important to express that this is a significant change in patent law, but it is done to protect, if you will, the very treasure that has propelled America into an economic engine and that we must insist continue. 
   I think the changes that have been made certainly to some may be startling, but the effort was to bring all parties together. I am delighted that even though there are questions about, for example, the first-to-file over the first-to-invent, this committee saw fit to add my amendment which means that there will be periodic review so Congress will be instructed on whether or not this works on behalf of all inventors big and small. 
   Then when we look at the workings in section 5 dealing with first-to-file and dealing with damages. Rather than passing this law forever and ever, an amendment I added will give us an opportunity to study it to assess who is it helping and who is it hurting. We certainly want to ensure that all are given an opportunity. 
   I am very glad that the manager's amendment has impacted the damages provision. The original bill seemed to require all apportionment in all cases. But in this instance the manager's amendment has made it as one of the factors. Therefore, when you look at a Post-it sticker, you can determine how much the glue has helped the Post-it sticker. This is apportionment of damages in case there was a lawsuit. 
   I know that there are many groups, such as Innovation Alliance, that I look forward to working with as we make our way through to ensure that this bill answers the questions big and small and fuels the economic engine of manufacturing, universities, pharmaceuticals and others, like small inventors. I ask my colleagues to consider this bill and support it. It has a meaningful response to changing patent law for all involved.  
   Mr. Chairman, as an original co-sponsor and member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007. I am proud to Support this legislation because in many ways the current patent system is flawed, outdated, and in need of modernization. Under the visionary leadership of Chairman Conyers and Subcommittee Chairman Berman, joined by Mr. Smith and Mr. Coble, their counterparts on the minority side, the Judiciary Committee labored long and hard to produce legislation that reforms the American patent system so that it continues to foster innovation and be the jet fuel of the American economy and remains the envy of the world. 
   Mr. Chairman, Article I, Section 8, clause 8 of the Constitution confers upon the Congress the power:  
   To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.  
   In order to fulfill the Constitution's mandate, we must examine the patent system periodically. The legislation before us represents the first comprehensive review of the patent system in more than a generation. It is right and good and necessary that the Congress now reexamine the patent system to determine whether there may be flaws in its operation that may hamper innovation, including the problems described as decreased patent quality, prevalence of subjective elements in patent practice, patent abuse, and lack of meaningful alternatives to the patent litigation process. 
   On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, we must always be mindful of the importance of ensuring that small companies have the same opportunities to innovate and have their inventions patented and that the laws will continue to protect their valuable intellectual property. 
   The role of venture capital is very important in the patent debate, as is preserving the collaboration that now occurs between small firms and universities. We must ensure that whatever improvements we make to the patent laws are not done so at the expense of innovators and to innovation. The legislation before us, while not perfect, does a surprisingly good job at striking the right balance. 
   Mr. Chairman, the subject of damages and royalty payments, which is covered in Section 5 of the bill, is a complex issue. The complexity stems from the subject matter itself but also interactive effects of patent litigation reform on the royalty negotiation process and the future of innovation. Important innovations come from universities, medical centers, and smaller companies that develop commercial applications from their basic research. These innovators must rely upon the licensing process to monetize their ideas and inventions. 
   Mr. Chairman, the innovation ecosystem we create and sustain today will produce tomorrow's technological breakthroughs. That ecosystem is comprised of many different operating models. It is for that reason that we evaluated competing patent reform proposals thoroughly to ensure that sweeping changes in one part of the system do not result in unintended consequences to other important parts. 
   Let me discuss briefly some of the more significant features of this legislation, which I will urge all members to support. 
   SECTION 3: RIGHT OF THE FIRST INVENTOR TO FILE 
   H.R. 1908 converts the U.S. patent system from a first-to-invent system to a first-inventor-to file system. The U.S. is alone in granting priority to the first inventor as opposed to the first inventor to file a patent. H.R. 1908 will inject needed clarity and certainty into the system. While cognizant of the enormity of the change that a ``first inventor to file'' system may have on many small inventors and universities, a grace period is maintained to substantially reduce the negative impact to these inventors. 
   Moreover, the legislation incorporates an amendment that I offered during the full committee markup that requires the Department of Commerce Undersecretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the Patent and Trademark Office director to conduct a study every seven years on the effectiveness of revisions made in the bill to the patent derivation litigation system and submit the report to the House and Senate Judiciary committees. In embracing this constructive addition to the bill, the Committee Report notes:  
   [T]he amendments in section 3 of the bill serve to implement a fundamental change in the operation of the United States patent system. Such change, while well-reasoned, requires a mechanism for monitoring its long-term effects. 
   SECTION 5: FORMULA FOR CALCULATING FAIR AND EQUITABLE REMEDIES 
   Section 5 of the bill provides useful clarification to courts and juries designed to ensure inventors are compensated fairly, while not discouraging innovation with arbitrary or excessive damage awards. While preserving the right of patent owners to receive appropriate damages, the bill provides a formula to ensure that the patent owner be rewarded for the actual value of the patented invention. 
   Computing damages in patent cases is an exceedingly complex task. The complexity stems not from the unwillingness of competing interests to find common ground but from the interactive effects of patent litigation reform on the royalty negotiation process and the future of innovation. 
   To illustrate, consider this frequently cited hypothetical. A new turbine blade for a jet engine is invented which enables the plane to achieve a 40 percent increase in gas mileage. What is fair compensation for 
   the holder of the patent? Damages could fairly be based on the number of turbine blades used, the number of jet engines employing those turbine blades, or on a percentage of the savings of the cost of jet fuel used, or the number of miles flown by aircraft using engines employing the turbine blades, or even, if the higher efficiency of aircraft using the turbine blades was the basis for the market demand for the jet, the jet itself. 
   The original version of the bill was susceptible to a reasonable interpretation that apportionment would be required in all cases. But as marked up and amended, apportionment is only one of the several methods a court can use in awarding damages, including the use of the current approach established in Georgia-Pacific v. United States Plywood Corp., 318 F.Supp. 116 (S.D.N.Y. 1970), which provides that reasonable royalty damages are ascertained by looking to what the infringer would have paid, and what the patent owner would have accepted, for a license, had one been negotiated at the time the infringement began. 
   Moreover, apportionment no longer applies to damages based on lost profits. Another change allows plaintiff to recover the enhanced value of previously known elements where their combination in the invention adds value or functionality to the prior art. This is a very important and helpful compromise on the issue of patent case damages. We must keep in mind that important innovations come from universities, medical centers, and smaller companies that develop commercial applications from their basic research. These innovators must rely upon the licensing process to monetize their ideas and inventions.  Thus, it is very important that we take care not to harm this incubator of tomorrow's technological breakthroughs. The bill before us strikes the proper balance. 
   In addition, it should also be pointed out that included in the bill is another of my amendments adopted during the full committee markup requiring the PTO Director to conduct a study on the effectiveness and efficiency of the amendments to section 5 of the bill, and submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the results of the study. The report must include any recommendations the Director may have on amendments to the law add any other recommendations the Director may have with respect to the right of the inventor to obtain damages for patent infringement. The study must be done not later than the end of the 7-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and at the end of every 7-year period after the date of the first study. In adopting this amendment, the Judiciary Committee reported that:  
   [T]he amendments in section 5 of the bill will have many positive effects on the patent system, but that the changes are sufficiently significant to require periodic monitoring. By examining the effects of these changes on a regular basis, and by paying attention to such feedback as may be obtained through these studies, Congress can ensure that any unforeseen negative consequences that may arise can be dealt with through future legislation or other mechanisms. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I started out in this debate to say that we worked very hard for a long period of time to be able to look at the small and the big, the big inventor and the little man inventor. All of them have been great to America, and we have benefited from their inventions and their intellect. 
   This patent bill preserves the intellectual property, the art, the invention, the minds of America. And it does, in fact, protect us against those who would undermine this very viable economic engine, and that is our mind, our talent. 
   But I believe that all voices should be heard. And throughout this whole process there is probably no one who focused on the damages issue as much as I did, the proportionality issue. And I worked with Mr. Berman and Mr. Conyers and our bipartisan friends. 
   So this gives us an opportunity, and my amendment is very simple. And it doesn't wait 7 years or 10 years to give us answers. It's 1 year. It provides us with the opportunity in this landmark legislation to study the patent damage awards in cases where such awards have been based on a reasonable royalty under section 84 of title 35 of the United States Code. The study should at a minimum consider cases from 1990 to the present. It has a very detailed analysis, and what that will do is it will find its way to this Congress and we will have a better way of assessing the impact. 
   We are concerned. Proportionality is an issue. But we are not ignoring your concerns, and this particular study helps to bring us along. 
   Let me just quickly suggest the entities that will be impacted in a positive way: the American Intellectual Property Law Association, a number of universities that will be impacted from the University of Illinois to Massachusetts to the University of Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Texas A&M. Small inventors will be impacted by this study because it will give us more information. 
   I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman for affording me this opportunity to explain my amendment to H.R. 1908, the ``Patent Reform Act of 2007.'' Let me also thank the distinguished Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. CONYERS, and the Ranking Member, Mr. Smith, for the example of bipartisan leadership coming together to address the real problems of the American people and the economy. 
   I especially wish to thank Mr. BERMAN and Mr. COBLE, the chair and ranking member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet for their hard work, perseverance, and visionary leadership in producing landmark legislation that should ensure that the American patent system remains the envy of the world. I am proud to have joined with all of them as original co-sponsor of H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007. 
   On behalf of the small business enterprises, technology firms, and academics I am privileged to represent, I want to publicly thank them for working with me on two other amendments to the bill offered by me which were adopted during the full committee markup. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment is a simple but important addition to this landmark legislation, which I believe can be supported by every member of this body. My amendment calls for a study of patent damage awards in cases where such awards have been based on a reasonable royalty under Section 284 of Title 35 of the United States Code. The study should, at a minimum, consider cases from 1990 to the present. The results of this study shall be reported to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. 
   I have attached to my statement a partial listing of groups, organizations, institutions, and industries that will benefit from the study called for in my amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, Article I, Section 8, clause 8 of the Constitution confers upon the Congress the power: ``To promote the Progress of  Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.'' 
   In order to fulfill the Constitution's mandate, we must examine the patent system periodically to determine whether there may be flaws in its operation that may hamper innovation, including the problems described as decreased patent quality, prevalence of subjective elements in patent practice, patent abuse, and lack of meaningful alternatives to the patent litigation process. 
   On the other hand, we must be mindful of the importance of ensuring that small companies have the same opportunities to innovate and have their inventions patented and that the laws will continue to protect their valuable intellectual property. 
   Chairman BERMAN is to be commended for his yeoman efforts in seeking to broker a consensus on the subject of damages and royalty payments, which is covered in Section 5 of the bill. But as all have learned by now, this is an exceedingly complex issue. The complexity stems not from the unwillingness of competing interests to find common ground but from the interactive effects of patent litigation reform on the royalty negotiation process and the future of innovation. 
   Important innovations come from universities, medical centers, and smaller companies that develop commercial applications from their basic research. These innovators must rely upon the licensing process to monetize their ideas and inventions. Thus, it is very important that we take care not to harm this incubator of tomorrow's technological breakthroughs. It is for that reason that we need to study whether patent damage awards in cases where such awards have been based on a reasonable royalty under 35 U.S.C. 284 have and are hindering technological innovation. 
   And it is important to emphasize Mr. Chairman, that this evaluation will be based on empirical data rigorously analyzed. 
   Among the matters to be studied and reviewed are the following: Whether the mean or median dollar amount of reasonably royalty-based patent damages awarded by courts or juries, as the case may be, has significantly increased on a per case basis during the period covered by the study, taking into consideration adjustments for inflation and other relevant economic factors; Whether there has been a pattern of excessive and inequitable reasonable-royalty based damages during the period covered by the study and, if so, any contributing factors; To the extent that a pattern of excessive and inequitable damage awards exists, measures that could guard against such inappropriate awards without unduly prejudicing the rights and remedies of patent holders or significantly increasing litigation costs; and To the extent that a pattern of excessive and inequitable damage awards exists, whether legislative proposals that would mandate, or create a presumption in favor of, apportionment of reasonable royalty-based patent damages would effectively guard against such inappropriate awards without unduly prejudicing the rights and remedies of patent holders or significantly increasing litigation costs. 
   In short, Mr. Chairman my amendment can be summed up as follows: For those who are confident of the future, my amendment offers vindication. For those who are skeptical that the new changes will work, my amendment will provide the evidence they need to prove their case. And for those who believe that maintaining the status quo is intolerable, my amendment offers a way forward. 
   I urge all members to support my amendment.  
   Appendix 
   AmberWave Systems Aware, Inc., Canopy Venture Partners, LLC, Cantor Fitzgerald, LP, Cryptography Research, Cummins-Allison Corp., Digimarc Corporation, Fallbrook Technologies, Inc., Helius, Inc, Immersion Corporation, Inframat Corporation, InterDigital Communications Corporation, Intermolecular, Inc., LSI Metabolix. 
   QUALCOMM, Inc., Symyx, Tessera, US Nanocorp. 3M, Abbott, Accelerated Technologies, Inc., Acorn Cardiovascular Inc., Adams Capital Management, Adroit Medical Systems, Inc., AdvaMed, Advanced Diamond Technologies, Inc., Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., Aero-Marine Company. 
   AFL-CIO, Air Liquide, Air Products, ALD NanoSolutions, Inc., ALIO Industries, Allergan, Inc., Almyra, Inc., AmberWave Systems Corporation, American Intellectual Property Law Association (AIPLA), American Seed Trade, Americans for Sovereignty, Americans for the Preservation of Liberty, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, AngioDynamics, Inc. Applied Medical, Applied Nanotech, Inc. 
   Argentis Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Arizona BioIndustry Association, ARYx Therapeutics, Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc., Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM), Asthmatx, Inc., AstraZeneca, Aware, Inc., Baxa Corporation, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, BayBio, Beckman Coulter, BIO--Biotechnology Industry Organization, BioCardia, Inc. 
   BIOCOM, Biogen Idec. Biomedical Association, BioOhio, Bioscience Institute, Biotechnology Council of New Jersey, Blacks for Economic Security Trust Fund, BlazeTech Corporation, Boston Scientific, Bridgestone Americas Holding, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, BuzzLogic, California Healthcare Institute, Canopy Ventures, Carbide Derivative Technologies, Cardiac Concepts, Inc. 
   CardioDynamics, Cargill, Inc., Cassie-Shipherd Group, Caterpillar, Celgene Corporation, Cell Genesys, Inc., Center 7, Inc. Center for Small Business and the Environment, Centre for Security Policy, Cephalon, CheckFree, Christian Coalition of America, Cincinnati Sub-Zero Products, Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, Coalitions for America. 
   CogniTek Management Systems, Inc., Colorado Bioscience Association, Conceptus, Inc., CONNECT, Connecticut United for Research Excellence, Cornell University, Corning, Coronis Medical Ventures, Council for America, CropLife America, Cryptography Research, Cummins Inc. 
   Cummins-Allison Corporation, CVRx Inc., Dais Analytic Corporation, Dartmouth Regional Technology Center, Inc., Declaration Alliance 
   Deltanoid Pharmaceuticals, Digimarc Corporation, DirectPointe, Dow Chemical Company, DuPont, Dura-Line Corporation, Dynatronics Co., Eagle Forum, Eastman Chemical Company. 
   Economic Development Center, Edwards Lifesciences, Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Electronics for Imaging, Eli Lilly and Company, Ellman Innovations LLC, Enterprise Partners Venture Capital, Evalve, Inc. Exxon Mobil Corporation, Fallbrook Technologies Inc., FarSounder, Inc., Footnote.com, Gambro BCT, General Electric. 
   Genomic Health, Inc., Gen-Probe Incorporated, Genzyme, Georgia Biomedical Partnership, Glacier Cross, Inc. 
   GlaxoSmithKline, Glenview State Bank, Hawaii Science & Technology Council, HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, HeartWare, Inc., Helius, Inc., Henkel Corporation. 
   Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., iBIO, Imago Scientific Instruments, Impulse Dynamics (USA), Inc., Indiana Health Industry Forum, Indiana University, Innovation Alliance, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)-USA. 
   InterDigital Communications Corporation, Intermolecular, Inc., International Association of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE), Invitrogen Corporation, Iowa Biotechnology Association, ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, KansasBio, Leadership Institute, Let Freedom Ring, Life Science Alley, LITMUS, LLC, LSI Corporation, Lux Capital Management, Luxul Corporation, Maryland Taxpayers' Association. 
   Masimo Corporation, Massachusetts Biotechnology Council, Massachusetts Medical Device Industry Council (MassMEDIC), Maxygen Inc., MDMA--Medical Device Manufacturer's Association, Medical College of Wisconsin, Medlmmune, Inc., Medtronic, Merck, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., Metabolex, Inc., Metacure (USA), Inc., MGI Pharma Inc., MichBio.  
   Michigan Small Tech Association, Michigan State University, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Milliken & Company, Mohr, Davidow Ventures, Monsanto Company, NAM--National Association of Manufacturers, NanoBioMagnetics, Inc. (NBMI), NanoBusiness Alliance, Nanolnk, Inc., Nanolntegris, Inc., Nanomix, Inc., Nanophase Technologies, NanoProducts Corporation, Nanosys, Inc., Nantero, Inc., National Center for Public Policy Research, Nektar Therapeutics, Neoconix, Inc. 
   Neuro Resource Group (NRG), Neuronetics, Inc., NeuroPace, New England Innovation Alliance, New Hampshire Biotechnology Council, New Hampshire Department of Economic Development, New Mexico Biotechnical and Biomedical Association, New York Biotechnology Association. 
   Norseman Group, North Carolina Biosciences Organization, North Carolina State University, North Dakota State University, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Northwestern University, Novartis, Novartis Corporation. 
   Novasys Medical Inc., NovoNordisk, NUCRYST Pharmaceuticals, Inc., NuVasive, Inc., Nuvelo, Inc., Ohio State University, OpenCEL, LLC, Palmetto Biotechnology Alliance, Patent Caf&#233;.com, Inc., Patent Office Professional Association, Pennsylvania Bio, Pennsylvania State University, PepsiCo, Inc., Pfizer, PhRMA--Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, Physical Sciences Inc., PointeCast Corporation. 
   Power Innovations International, Power Metal Technologies, Inc., Preformed Line Products, Procter & Gamble, Professional Inventors' Alliance. 
   ProRhythm, Inc., Purdue University, Pure Plushy Inc., QUALCOMM Inc., QuantumSphere, Inc., QuesTek Innovations LLC, Radiant Medical, Inc., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Research Triangle Park, NC, Retractable Technologies, Inc., RightMarch.com. 
   S & C Electric Company, Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., SanDisk Corporation, Sangamo BioSciences, Inc., Semprius, Inc, Small Business Association of Michigan--Economic Development Center, Small Business Exporters Association of the United States, Small Business Technology Council, Smart Bomb Interactive, Smile Reminder, SmoothShapes, Inc., Solera Networks, South Dakota Biotech Association, Southern California Biomedical Council, Spiration, Inc., Standup Bed Company. 
   State of New Hampshire Department of Resources and Economic Development, Stella Group, Ltd., StemCells, SurgiQuest, Inc., Symyx Technologies, Inc., Tech Council of Maryland/MdBio, Technology Patents & Licensing, Tennessee Biotechnology Association, Tessera, Inc., Texas A&M, Texas Healthcare, Texas Instruments, Three Arch Partners, United Technologies, University of California System, University of Illinois, University of Iowa, University of Maryland, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, University of New Hampshire, University of North Carolina System, University of Rochester, University of Utah, University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS EXEMPTION -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee; the distinguished chairman on the Foreign Affairs Committee; and our distinguished ranking member, who has joined us in a very important and historic step that is being made on the floor of the House today. And I appreciate my good friend from Iowa, who has given us a global overview. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to remind my colleagues that this is a pointed and focused legislative initiative, along with the leadership of Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren, that we have gotten to a point that is long overdue. My good friend, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and Congressman Don Payne are part of those who initiated this effort. And it is pointedly to focus on really what we would call heroes, fighters against apartheid in South Africa, who shed their blood so that South Africa could be the reconciled nation that it is today. President Mbeki; former President Mandela, ``Father Mandela,'' as he is called; and many of the seniors who are now in their retiring years, who, when they come to the United States, are detained, interrogated, and embarrassed by our own treatment of these heroes, this goes to the very point of the expanded use in the United States of the word ``terrorism'' and the utilization of it by preventing innocent people, people who have been heroes, to come into this country. This is not necessarily a strict immigration bill. It is people who are coming into the country legally, but because they have been freedom fighters, somewhat the way that Dr. Martin Luther King stood nonviolently for rights here in this country, these individuals had to be in the midst of an encounter, if you will, to provide the safety and security for their people. 
   This particular legislation is an important step forward. But I might suggest to my colleagues that I hope that on the floor today we are making a legislative statement and providing legislative history so that the Department of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State or the State Department will not dillydally around, because, unlike the previous legislation, this does not order it to be done; it gives those departments the discretion for it to be done, as they have requested. So we are entrusting to them this noble responsibility to do well by Father Mandela, to do well by former President Mbeki, and we need to ensure that we do the right thing. And as we look to give this country a different face on terrorism, let us likewise be assured that we recognize that there are other groups that are similarly situated that we should take a look at. 
   So I rise to support this legislation, Mr. Speaker, because it is an important step forward. It does give the ability to admit these individuals but also to renew the stigma, if you will, of the name of ``terrorists'' because they were freedom fighters to save and preserve and to free South Africans so that they too might live in a democracy. That is what this legislation does, and I appreciate all of the hard work that has gone on. 
   I close by simply saying, good day for the freedom fighters of South Africa and the ANC; good day for Father Mandela, who led the fight on reconciliation and peace, along with Bishop Tutu. Good day for all of them as we stand here acknowledging that they are heroes, freedom fighters fighting for democracy and equality. 
   To the Secretary of State, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, act now once this bill has passed.  
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for your leadership in convening today's markup on H.R. 5690. I support this bill and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
   This bill recognizes that the ANC is a nearly 100-year-old party that was created in 1912 to advocate for the rights of black South Africans. It also recognizes that the white Afrikaner government took control of South Africa  in 1948 and at the same time instituted its system of de jure apartheid, which had the effect of disenfranchising millions of non-white Africans. The ANC joined with other groups to engage in civil disobedience and it was banned in 1960 by the South African Government. Although the ANC was banned, it led the resistance effort against apartheid in the late 1970s and 1980s. 
   Between 1990 and 1994, the ANC negotiated with the South African Government for the end of apartheid and the enfranchisement of black South Africans. In 1994, the ANC became a registered political party and Nelson Mandela was elected to be the first black president. 
   Since the recognition of the ANC as a legitimate political party, several prominent black South Africans have been denied visas to enter the United States on the basis that they were considered to be inadmissible under the INA because they were members of a terrorist group. Nelson Mandela were considered inadmissible under this same law. In the past the Department of State has provided waivers to ANC leaders to enter the United States. 
   H.R. 5690 would remove certain affected persons from certain U.S. databases. The bill provides that the Secretary of State, Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall take steps to update the database concerning admissible persons. The bill provides that the ANC is not treated as a terrorist organization for any act occurring on or before the enactment of the act. The bill still leaves the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security with the discretion to deny people entry. Importantly, the bill does not deny present and former members of the ANC admission to the U.S. on the basis of their membership in or affiliation with the ANC or for any apartheid activities occurring from 1948 to 1990. 
   This bill is long overdue. The ANC has been recognized as a legitimate political party since 1994. There is no reason to treat members of that organization as a terrorist threat. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. My only concern is that the bill singles out the ANC but does not go further in clearing other political parties that were outlawed during the apartheid era from treatment as terrorist organizations.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (``MISSION ACCOMPLISHED''? -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. May 1, just last Thursday, was the fifth anniversary of the famous words, ``Mission Accomplished.'' What a tragedy, when April was the most deadliest month in Iraq that we have seen in a number of months. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to ask the administration to recognize that this unending war must end. And in the backdrop of a newspaper article that suggests that the administration is looking at a $500 million development of hotels and restaurants and amusement parks in Baghdad, I ask the administration, do they get it? That's why it's important for us to support an amendment in the emergency supplemental that says we will bring our troops home with honor. This will go into effect one month after this legislation is passed. 
   Seven months, deadliest, April, troops dying. This kind of war cannot be an unending war. And so we refuse to give more blank checks to Iraq. We thank our soldiers on the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan, the war we should win. Bring our troops home with honor. Vote for this amendment. And let's not focus on a $500 million development of hotels and restaurants in Iraq--what are we thinking about?--Let's bring the troops home! 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRIORITIZING RESOURCES AND ORGANIZATION FOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4279, the ``Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property (PRO-IP) Act of 2007.'' I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this legislation. I am confident that working together we can address and strengthen criminal and civil enforcement of United States intellectual property law. 
   The purpose of H.R. 4279 is to strengthen criminal and civil enforcement of United States intellectual property law focusing, in particular, on copyright violations (piracy) and trademark violations (counterfeiting). In addition, the PRO-IP Act seeks to modernize and improve U.S. government efforts for coordination and enforcement of our nation's IP laws.  
   The knowledge and innovation of American citizens contributes significantly to the economic strength of our nation. Intellectual property law provides the principal incentives that are calculated to lead to the creation and production of new works. This bill is needed because the effect of piracy and counterfeiting on the economy is devastating. Total global losses to United States companies from counterfeiting and copyright piracy amount to $250 billion per year. Every company in every industry is vulnerable. 
   Because these illegal activities represent a growing public health, safety and law enforcement problem, H.R. 4279 provides additional targeted resources for investigation, enforcement and prosecution; requires the development and promulgation of a national Joint Strategic Plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy; and provides for enhanced Presidential level leadership and coordination among federal agencies involved with preserving and protecting intellectual property rights. 
   Title I of H.R. 4279 provides enhancements to civil intellectual property laws. Specifically, Title I makes it clear that a certificate of registration will satisfy registration requirements regardless of whether there is any inaccurate information on the registration application, unless the inaccurate information was included with knowledge that it was inaccurate. 
   Title I also broadens the civil remedies for infringement by broadening the scope of articles that may be ordered impounded by the court upon a finding that the article was made or used in violation of a copyright. This Title also directs the court to enter a protective order to ensure that confidential information is not improperly disclosed. 
   Title II provides enhancements to criminal intellectual property laws by addressing repeat offender penalties for criminal acts contained within the criminal copyright statute. Title II clarifies that a repeat offender is a person that commits the same criminal act twice. The bill clarifies that any property subject to forfeiture must be owned or predominantly controlled by the violator in order to be seized and directs the United States Sentencing Commission to consider whether the sentencing guidelines should be expanded to include the export of infringing items. There are enhanced maximum statutory penalties for counterfeit offenses that endanger public health and safety. 
   Title III of H.R. 4279 provides greater coordination and strategic planning of federal efforts against counterfeiting and piracy. Specifically, this Title establishes within the Executive Office of the President, the Office of the United States Intellectual Property Enforcement Representative and, within that Office, the United 
   States Intellectual Property Enforcement Representative, appointed by the President of the United States. Lastly, Titles IV and V provide international, national, and local enforcement. 
   The bill has several important enforcement provisions that are worthy to discuss. First, it places a 45-day time limit on the Register of Copyrights' response to a court. Second, it strikes the section allowing for multiple statutory damages for compilation infringement. Third, it clarifies that there must be a substantial nexus between the property and the crime to institute civil forfeiture proceedings. Lastly, it removes the requirements for Federal Bureau of Investigation agents to receive IP related crime training. 
   While I support the bill, I would have liked to consider ways to ensure diversity in the Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property (CHIPs) units that are established by this bill. I would have liked to work to ensure that minorities be represented in hiring and that special recruitment initiatives be launched at historically black colleges and universities and other minority serving institutions. We should do all within our efforts to guarantee that minorities receive the necessary training and be recruited to help in the IP enforcement at the Executive, State, and local levels. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4279 is a first step toward the promotion of the American economy. It ensures that American innovation will remain crucial to the United States economy and that American innovation will allow the United States to remain a global economic power. Indeed, this bill ensures that the United States IP laws are enforced and that the American intellectual property system remains one of the best in the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all members to support this much needed and thoughtful legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IN MEMORY OF REUBEN WHEATLEY -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Again, Madam Speaker, it is a privilege to be speaking to my colleagues as you preside over this Chamber, and we thank you for your leadership. 
   I am privileged this evening to be able to stand on the floor of the House and salute a very dear friend, a friend who will commemorate and celebrate for his homegoing ceremony on this coming Friday, December 21, 2007. We will lay this battle-worn warrior, this friendly and wonderful public servant, Reuben Wheatley, to rest. I stand here as a longstanding friend, as a grateful member of his community, for all that he did to promote equality and justice and freedom. 
   Yes, Reuben Wheatley, born September 15, 1921 was, in fact, a member of the movement both in terms of creating opportunities for those of African American heritage and others and as well in fighting for the working men and women of America. 
   He was the proud son of Fifth Ward. Yes, that is in Houston, Texas, but everybody knows there is something called proudly Fifth Ward, Texas. Educated in the Houston Independent School District, and certainly whenever you would see Reuben, he would talk about his beloved Wheatley High School, Phyllis Wheatley High School, and he was an all-star member of the track team, the football team and the basketball team. And he was quick, regal, tall and quick. They called him ``Rabbit.'' He joined the church at the Sloan Memorial United Methodist Church, a church still standing proudly in Fifth Ward. 
   But yet as this young man grew, he loved this Nation. And in 1941 he heeded the call of this Nation, the need of this Nation and went to war, World War II. He participated in the European Theater of Operations and was honorably discharged by the United States Army as master sergeant. He had the good sense, if you will, when he returned to marry Helen McCree his high school sweetheart, on November 18, 1945. 
   How grateful we are that he was one of the returning heroes, that as he battled in World War II, he lived to be able to enjoy the partnership, friendship and love of Helen McCree, now his wife, Helen Wheatley. 
   His father was a longshoreman, and in those days, the union and working for the union and working for the longshoremen, that was a job for African Americans that was a legacy, an opportunity, a step up. And so when he came back from the war, he joined in the footsteps of his father and became a member of the International Longshoremen's Association, Local Number 872. 
   And boy, did he become a member, and did he not serve. Reuben Wheatley had his hands on the pulse of the community. He understood the importance and the necessity of empowerment of minorities. He was one of the champions of the election of the Honorable Barbara Jordan. Almost every elected person that could come out of Fifth Ward, Reuben Wheatley was there. He was there for Mickey Leland. And I am so grateful that he stretched his arms to be there for Sheila Jackson-Lee. As I ran for judge and city council, he saw in me something worth investing in. 
   Thank you, Reuben, and thank you to your wonderful family, your daughters, who you love so dearly, one in particular was named the name that I have, Sheila. And she, of course, along with her siblings were stars, and they were that because of Reuben and his wife Helen. 
   And so I am here today to thank you, Reuben, for now you fly where the angels fly. Thank you, Reuben, for being regal and tall. Thank you for smiling. Thank you for loving. Thank you for being that star at Wheatley so that your classmates can enjoy talking about your exploits on the football field, the basketball court, and the track, and yes, to remember that friendly name, ``Rabbit.'' 
   Thank you for your faith and your commitment to your country. Thank you for your commitment, again, to family. Houston, Texas, the State of Texas and certainly our Nation is better because you yet lived. On Friday, it will be a celebration. Although tears will fall, we will be so grateful to continue to see you even as I speak, walking lightly in front of us. 
   Madam Speaker, it is certainly great to be able to say tonight, ``Well done, thou good and faithful servant.'' And that is what we say to Reuben Wheatley as he is laid to rest. We celebrate him and congratulate his life. God bless the family, and God bless him as he rests. 
   Congressional Resolution In Memory of Reuben Wheatley 
   Whereas, on September 15, 1921, God blessed Emory McMillan, Sr and Creola Boyd Wheatley with the birth of their son, Reuben; and 
   Whereas, as a proud son of the Fifth Ward, Texas Wheatley clan, Reuben was educated in the Houston Independent School District. At his beloved Phillis Wheatley High School, he excelled in football, basketball, and track and field earning the nickname ``Rabbit''; and 
   Whereas, Reuben was presented to Christ by his parents at Sloan Memorial United Methodist Church. He later joined his bride at Pleasant Grove Missionary Baptist Church and subsequently, both as faithful servants of the Lord, joined Brentwood Baptist Church; and 
   Whereas, in 1941, Reuben honored the call to serve his country during World War II. He participated in the European Theater of Operations and was honorably discharged from the United States Army as Master Sergeant. Upon his return from the service in 1945, Reuben married Helen McCree, his high school sweetheart, on November 18th; and 
   Whereas, in 1946, Reuben began his career along the shore working on the Houston docks where his father had worked since 1921. He was a member of International Longshoremen's Association, Local #872; and 
   Whereas, he served his home local as Trustee, Recording Secretary and Business Agent before being elected President in 1971. In 1975, he became Executive Vice President of the South Atlantic and Gulf Coast District of the ILA; and 
   Whereas, he served as an active board member of Family Services of Greater Houston and an avid financial supporter of the United Negro College Fund; and 
   Whereas, Reuben was deeply committed to his community and his civic involvement reflected his concerns; and 
   Whereas, the memory of Reuben Wheatley will forever be in our hearts and minds as we go forth to celebrate his life today; and now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That on behalf of the constituents of the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas, Reuben Wheatley will be remembered for his devotion to his family, his community service, and his passion for music. His life will serve as an example to all of us to continue his legacy to serve others. His death is a great loss to us, but we know that his work on Earth is finished, and we believe the Master will say, ``Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter.......'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENT TO SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008) AND FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.J. RES. 72, FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Massachusetts. 
   As I stand here, I am looking at the lights in this Chamber and I must say to my colleagues that they are very bright. Symbolically, then, as we stand here on the floor of the House, we should be transparent, the lights should be on, and we should tell the truth. And so it is important for me to just hold up a summary of the works of the Democrats who worked without ceasing to reestablish priorities so that the maligned omnibus bill that my good friends on the other side of the aisle are talking about all the bad things, really, they are not shedding the light on the truth. Let me share with you simply what we have tried to do in the midst of opposition and obstructionism. 
   I wish the administration would have collaborated with us, but we fought hard. And so out of this work comes increased medical research, $607 million for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and diabetes, which hits the 18th Congressional District in insurmountable numbers. 
   Health care of $1 billion above the President's request that will focus resources in St. Joseph's Hospital and Doctors Hospital and potentially community health clinics that have worked on, like the Martin Luther King Community Health Clinic which needs additional dollars because of the increasing numbers of health problems in my congressional district. In K-12, my congressional district has the highest percentage of those students on title I in the State of Texas, and we have been able to increase that by $767 million. 
   In addition, I went to the University of Houston to talk to those students who were standing in throngs asking about college aid, and I made a promise to them that we would not abandon their opportunity for their future and their desires and their dreams. And so this bill gives $1.7 billion above the  President's request for Pell Grants and other student aid programs. 
   There is a surge in crime wherever you go. The violence in Omaha in the mall; the violence dealing with the church and mission school out west. We now have 20 extra million dollars for Cops on the Beat. 
   And then, of course, the tragedy of falling bridges, an inventory in my own district that suggested the falling bridges. We have increased dollars for that. 
   I am very glad that there is moneys in here for the Texas Southern University lab for domestic violence in the City of Houston, but I am disappointed, Madam Speaker, because we have fallen on the job. And because most of America wants our troops home, now we have money for Iraq in this bill. 
   We have a crisis. I sat in a hearing today to listen to a woman violated, abused, sexually violated in Iraq. No control. Recklessness going on. I went down the hall to another hearing, and members or representatives of the Iraqi Parliament said, how dare the United Nations cast a vote for more troops to be in Iraq without consulting with this new democratic government. 
   We need to bring the troops home. Our troops deserve honor. I have authored a bill, the Military Success Act of 2007, that says the troops have done everything they have been asked to do. Give them their honor, give them their awards, have a proclamation celebrating their heroism. But the troops need to come home. And this bill does not need to be filled with Iraqi money, because the American people, over 60 percent, have said, we are done, we are finished. We have committed the greatest sacrifice, our children, our husbands, our wives, our grandmothers, our grandfathers, our family members. We have said that we have done everything that we have been asked to do by the 2002 resolution, of which I voted against. It is now finished. It is over. The troops need to come home. 
   So, Madam Speaker, I think it is important that we acknowledge this bill and the work that we have tried to do. But, sadly, this bill needs to fall because of the Iraq dollars. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EMERGENCY AND DISASTER ASSISTANCE FRAUD PENALTY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman of the full committee. Through his leadership, we have had a number, huge numbers of solutions being put forward, and I thank him so very much for serving the American people as he has done. Let me thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Chabot) for his leadership and share some real life stories. 
   Madam Speaker, I lived through Hurricane Katrina and Rita and spent a good number of my days in New Orleans visiting not only with the victims of Hurricane Katrina, but also subsequently in Texas visiting with those impacted by Hurricane Rita. I also engaged extensively with small contractors and workers who indicated that in addition to trying to put themselves forward to do the best work on behalf of the victims, they were victimized. And the victims were victimized over and over again: fraudulent work being done, contracts being signed, moneys being promised, and nothing happening. 
   This bill will set the record straight. Not only does it send a message in times of disaster to those who come rushing in to try and provide, if you will, the saving flag or the saving grace, but hopefully it will send a message to local jurisdictions that they must have enormous oversight in ensuring that they are not subjected to criminal penalties. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, let me also acknowledge Chairman Thompson. In the early days after Hurricane Katrina, we had oversight hearings over the abuses that were occurring, the lack of oversight by FEMA. I went into some of the sites, if you will, where individuals were being signed up for work or benefits. But the aftermath of it was what the shame was. How people were not given the benefits they were promised, how contractors did not fulfill their duties, and how local jurisdictions were made to pay enormous prices to large contractors, and yet local small businesses, minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses could not get business and could not be paid. Even today, there are small contractors who are waiting still to be paid. 
   I rise to support this legislation, the Emergency and Disaster Assistance Fraud Penalty Enhancement Act of 2007. It is long overdue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY MODERNIZATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. 
   Madam Speaker, this is the holiday season. For many of us, this is Christmas. And I believe we owe a debt of gratitude to the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Rush; the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Dingell; all of the people who worked so hard; Ms. DeLauro who is not on the committee but who worked hard on this issue; and my good friend from Texas (Mr. Barton) who today declared an enormous Christmas gift. He said the President is going to sign this in near order. Maybe it will be tonight or tomorrow, and we will come back with our Santa Claus hats on. I chair the Congressional Children's Caucus, and this is a mighty important step going forward. 
   I am delighted to be an original cosponsor of H.R. 4040, and I am really pleased that we responded immediately in an emergency posture. Can you imagine, Mr. Rush, listening to a member of the Consumer Product Safety Commission saying, ``We need no more resources, everything is well.'' And can you imagine parents as they push the wee hours of the morning, of course not them, working with Santa, to get toys for their children, to be able to have to question whether these toys are safe? In fact, in my own district, I am hearing that parents are questioning, and the purchases of gifts are down, toys are down because they just don't know what is safe. 
   This is a good bill. It instructs those who are dealing with children that there has to be important oversight. I am working, as well, and hope that as we move forward to expand the responsibilities of the Consumer Product Safety Commission that we will also look to language that I have in legislation that I have filed, or will be filing, dealing with the prohibition of imports of children's products without third-party testing for certification. 
   This kind of oversight is crucial. Lead kills. So many times we have fought against lead in housing and fought against various, if you will, owners of apartments. Many times we have waged a battle against lead in our public housing, section 8 housing or dilapidated housing that many poor Americans have to live in. We have fought against that. Lead kills. Lead is poison. But can you imagine that right under our very noses we had goods and toys that, in fact, our children bought or their family members bought and they played with that would kill? 
   H.R. 4040, I believe, will save lives. It is an important statement. It is a holiday statement. It is an important statement to indicate that children of America are first. I ask my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECTING THE BILL OF RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, there are certain principles that do not divide us by whether we've Republican or Democrat or an independent and that is, of course, the precious Bill of Rights, and the idea that we live in a country that is so unique and so different and so many people aspire to find just a simple taste of the democracy that we enjoy. 
   And yet, after 9/11, all of us gathered together realizing that if we allowed the terrorists to terrorize us, change our way of life, they had won. 
   Unfortunately, we have seen a number of legislative initiatives and as a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I take no back step to securing America. But I understand that our values of democracy and the protection of the Bill of Rights should be the anchor of this society. And if we terrorize ourselves by taking away our rights, the terrorists have won. 
   And so I stand here to emphasize certain basic principles as we look to revise the FISA law, and that is, of course, the law that clearly intercepts, undermines the fourth amendment; the right to be in your home and to be protected against unreasonable search and seizure. 
   I'm delighted that you will be hearing, over the next couple of days, along with a markup coming up, the principles enunciated that emphasize the protection of the values of America. And so we simply believe, as I believe, in joining with a number of colleagues to emphasize that we believe that we live in a dangerous world, but we also should be guided by principles. Those principles should ensure that Americans do not have to be surveilled in their homes when they are communicating with fellow Americans. We should not be suspect of our telecommunications companies to think that they are in cahoots, collaborating with our government to spy on us. 
   We realize that there is a difference when we talk about foreign-to-foreign communications, that there is a need for surveillance. And I'm here today to emphasize that we should stand and fight for the protection of the fourth amendment, to protect you in your homes and, at the same time, you can be protected against terrorists, because terrorism depends upon making sure that you have the information. 
   And when you have a court that is made available under the existing FISA law that was established in 1978 that understands the necessity and the urgency of the law enforcement officers that come to them, then you should support the idea of court intervention whenever someone determines  from the Federal Government to intervene and to listen to your communications between one American and another. 
   So I stand here today to emphasize that the court system, the FISA system, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, is an imperative to protect you as Americans when your government wants to spy on you. 
   Will we be safe from terrorists? Absolutely. Because part of the terrorism is to ensure that information is shared with law enforcement so that we can be in front of this issue. 
   I am looking forward to the markup. I'm looking forward to an opportunity to devise legislation that preserves the preciousness of the Bill of Rights and the fourth amendment. We cannot step back and be subjected to our own terror, and that is to be frightened so much that we take the Bill of Rights and extinguish it. 
   I may not agree with the interpretation of the second amendment, but it does exist and it is part of the Bill of Rights. You may have a different interpretation of the first amendment, but it is part of the Bill of Rights. You may have a suspect interpretation of the fourth amendment, but the language is clear: you are to be protected against unreasonable search and seizure. It is unreasonable to not go into a court established to do that, to protect you, to have a court objectively look at what the urgency is and to provide that intervention to protect your rights. 
   I look forward to working with a number of colleagues on language that I have joined and written to establish the parameters of protecting us from the violation of the fourth amendment. 
   Keep the FISA law as it is. Modernize it. Ensure that the FISA court that intervenes protects our rights and keeps our values, the values that so many have strived so hard to seek a place in the sun in this Nation because they truly believe that the democracy and the liberties that we have are worth protecting, worth protecting with their lives. And I believe here in the United States Congress, we must stand in that tradition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Just a few minutes ago, the full committee Chair mentioned the value of this bill, and I salute the appropriators, the chairman and ranking member of the subcommittee, for the valiant effort that they have made, whether it is about hazardous toxic cleanup; Superfund sites; national parks; historic preservation, where $102 million is appropriated, $30 million over the budget of the President, $30 million over the 2007 mark and $20 million above the President's request. This is a very good effort, and I want to thank Mr. Tiahrt and I want to thank the chairman of the subcommittee and both the chairman and ranking member of the full committee. 
   The chairman of the subcommittee just a moment ago mentioned the words ``downward trend'' in the budget process as another amendment was being debated. I want to bring to the attention of my colleagues the downward trend of historic preservation around America. 
   My amendment is simple. It is to encourage through reprogramming the National Historic Preservation Fund and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation to redouble their efforts to assist State and local governments and community groups in identifying and working to preserve nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts, particularly those relating to communities founded by newly emancipated slaves such as Freedmen's Town in Houston, Texas, or Tulsa in Oklahoma or the work that was done to serve the pre-Civil War and post-Civil War mansions in Savannah, Georgia, or the meat packing area in New York. We have to be able to stand for preservation in the face of urban renewal, in the face of urban infrastructure that has to be done. 
   I am hoping the reprogramming of $1 million will help communities like Freedmen's Town, help the city of Houston to realize that we mean business and the acknowledgment of the importance of historic preservation. This is the historic Fourth Ward. These are the cobblestone streets that have been laid by the hands of slaves. And just a few days ago, we commemorated emancipation. These are the remaining churches where pastors have dedicated their congregations and their moneys and themselves to historic preservation. These are the streets that have been disrupted. 
   And what we are hoping by this amendment is that the present project of infrastructure work for clean water, which is crucially important, can be done by the work or the analysis of an engineer that says you can do this on a sidewalk and preserve these cobblestone bricks that were laid by hand by 34 freed slaves who were bricklayers at that time. We know that the repetition of disrupting these bricks will destroy them forever, and there is a community that desires to have this preserved. This amendment, which is a reprogramming, emphasizes the importance of this. 
   Let us not have a downward trend, if you will, of historic preservation. Many Members have come to the floor with issues of value around Interior and Environment. We want the environment to be safe, but we want the historic environment to be preserved for those who are a valuable part of the historical story of America. 
   So I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment. It is crucial to the Freedmen's Town community in Houston, but it is crucial to the Tulsa story in Oklahoma. It is crucial to the story of Chicago, crucial to Savannah, crucial to New York, and many other States where we have systematically ignored the historic preservation of our Nation. Who will tell our children the story? I am fighting in Houston. Others are fighting elsewhere. This amendment is to create the historical record, the legislative record, that we are committed to. 
   Let me thank the committee for its commitment. We know the fund is sizable, but this is an important step. And the funding that was given is an important affirmation of historic preservation, particularly when engineers recognize that you can construct infrastructure work and preserve the historic identity of this community.  
   Thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of my amendment to H.R. 2643, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act of 2008, and to commend Chairman Dicks and Ranking Member Tiahrt for their leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. Among other agencies, this legislation funds the U.S. Forest Service, the National Park System, and the Smithsonian Institution, which operates our national museums, including the National Zoo. Most Americans do not know that this bill also funds a very special agency, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, and its adjunct, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple but it sends a very important message from the Congress of the United States. The purpose of  my amendment is to encourage the National Historic Preservation Fund and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation to redouble their efforts to assist state and local governments and community groups in identifying and working to preserve nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts, particularly those relating to communities founded by newly emancipated slaves, such as Freedmen's Town in Houston, Texas. 
   Mr. Chairman, just west of downtown Houston lies the Fourth Ward. It is the city's oldest Black community. But before it was the Fourth Ward, this community was known by its original name, Freedmen's Town, given by freed slaves who settled it shortly after receiving the news of their emancipation on Juneteenth. 
   Initially located where Allen Parkway Village now stands, Freedmen's Town was established immediately after the Civil War, when many farmers gave or sold their truck farms and property to freed slaves. Freedmen's Town prospered during the turn of the century. 
   Economic, community, and social development were at a peak until local government became threatened by the prosperity of this area and its residents. In the 1920s, Freedmen's Town was the ``Harlem of the Southwest.'' The area was filled with many restaurants, jazz spots, and night clubs. These establishments were frequently visited by Houston's white citizens as well. West Dallas was the community's main commercial strip. 
   As the years passed and with the coming of integration, many Freedmen's Town residents began to move toward Texas Southern University, in the Third Ward, and other areas of the city, such as Studewood, South Park, Riverside Terrace, Kashmere Gardens, and Acres Homes. And the size and population of Freedmen's Town began to shrink. Much of this was due to construction in the late 1930s against the wishes of Blacks here, which continued to sever the historical neighborhood, divided nearly at midpoint by the addition of the Gulf Freeway. 
   The struggle for justice by community residents and leadership is only one facet of Freedmen's Town's rich and colorful past, which is still home to many significant historical landmarks and features. Hand-laid brick streets, constructed by Rev. Jeremiah and his congregation over half a century ago, still run through the area. Houston's first cemetery, Founder's Cemetery at Valentine and West Dallas, contains the graves of military men who fought in the Civil War, as well as the historical remains of John and Augustus Allen, the founders of Houston. 
   Immediately adjacent to Founder's Cemetery stands the ``Hanging Tree'' where several Blacks were hanged. During World War I, Camp Logan, located just west of Freedmen's Town, was the site of the worst race war in the city's history--the ``Camp Logan War'' in August of 1917. 
   Behind Founder's Cemetery lies Congregation Beth Israel, the oldest Jewish cemetery in Houston, which is beautifully maintained to this day. Among other historical churches in the area, Antioch Missionary Baptist Church built in 1866 continues to be a major focal point of Freedmen's Town, though it has been relocated from its original site on ``Baptist Hill'' where the Music Hall and Coliseum now stand. 
   Reverend John Jack Yates, the first Black pastor of Antioch, was a dynamic and influential leader known for his deep commitment to 
   the education of Black youngsters. He often used his personal finances to send Freedmen's Town children to school. Today, Jack Yates High School in the Third Ward stands in his honor. 
   Of the houses that Reverend Yates built, only the one he built for his brother remains at 1314 Andrews. Yates' historical homestead at 1318 Andrews, believed to be the oldest two-story home built by an African American owner, was moved to Sam Houston Park (ironically, a park commemorating a slave-owner), while the house at 1204 Wilson was demolished by the City of Houston in 1986. Further plans promoted under the name of ``Founders Park'' so threatened the historical preservation of Freedmen's Town that outraged residents and leadership organized opposition through the Freedmen's Town Neighborhood Association to defeat the plans of outside private interests. However, the constant encroachment on Freedmen's Town and Fourth Ward continues to date with the plans of the Houston Renaissance and private developers. 
   Although Freedmen's Town is a nationally registered historical site, and the largest intact freed slave settlement left in the entire Nation, its official designation protects only 40 of the 80 blocks or more of the remaining Freedmen's Town area. 
   To preserve what remains of Freedmen's Town will require the combined efforts of community groups working with local, State, and Federal Government to reach a consensus of projects worthy of preservation. 
   One such project for Freedmen's Town is the ``Bricks Street Project,'' which is intended to preserve the original brick pavers of Freedmen's Town along Andrews Street and Wilson Street. These streets have been found to contain brick pavers patterns which may be unique to the Freedmen's Town area, and are consistent with brick patterns seen on architectural features located in the Historic District. Oral histories indicate the possibility that portions of the iron rails which once carried a Freedmen's Town trolley car may still remain in situ in the rail track ways. 
   Three of these community groups include the Rutherford BH Yates Museum, Inc., which has played a leading part in promoting the Bricks Street Project; the Resident Council of Allen Parkway Village, which works to educate the public on issues of Federal housing and historical preservation laws; and the Freedmen's Town Association, founded for the purpose of assuring the active and effective participation of current residents in planning the preservation, restoration, and development of the area, especially in the area of business and private home ownership. 
   Mr. Chairman, hearts break when irreplaceable structures are destroyed or damaged beyond repair, instead of preserved and protected as they deserve. A plaque pointing out ``on this site a great building once stood'' simply cannot tell the story in whole or in full. Equally tragic is the loss of traditions: a way of living or crafting wood or farming, of celebrating holidays or worshiping or feasting on ``Juneteenth'' cuisine. The preservation and perpetuation of artifacts as well as traditions is important to telling the story of the people who settled a community. By protecting the buildings, landscape or special places and qualities that attract visitors, we preserve our history for future generations. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment and thank Chairman DICKS and Ranking Member TIAHRT for their courtesies, consideration, and very fine work in putting together this excellent legislation.  
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the gentleman from Virginia for the leadership of the Budget Committee and the CBC budget effort that he has led continuously, and Congresswoman Kilpatrick, the chairperson of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
   It is important to note that I think Americans are tired of the ``I's and me's'' budget, and that is the budget of this administration, a lot of ``I's,'' a lot of ``me's,'' but never a lot of ``we's.'' 
   I think it is evident that this budget, the Congressional Black Caucus budget, reflects some of the startling facts that Americans are facing. First, the loss of 63,000 jobs in the last month under this administration, the categorizing of this administration as second only to former President Hoover in having the worst economy in the Nation's history. And, of course, if you just go out and talk to Mr. and Mrs. Smith or Mr. and Mrs. Gonzalez or many others, they will tell you that a recession is on the way.  
   This budget acknowledges the needs of our Nation. It provides the honor to our veterans by increasing that budget for health care, benefits and educational opportunities $60.9 billion. Today we honored the wounded warriors. We spoke to some of them, who said that we are now being assessed for our benefits. 
   This is what this budget does: it provides more dollars for Community Development Block Grants going into our community for nutrition programs and housing programs by $27.4 billion. I can tell you that the City of Houston has 1,500 senior citizens on a waiting list to rehab their homes that need this budget. 
   In addition, this administration has had the worst civil rights enforcement ever in the history of the United States. This budget ups the President's budget by $200 million to help those who have been discriminated against. 
   As you can see, this tells you about the income of Americans under this administration. It is now minus. Minus. Americans are losing money. They are now losing income. We are now in the red. Americans are struggling. If you listen to the Nation's reports about foreclosures, you will find out that Americans are losing their homes by the hundreds. You will find out that the foreclosure market is stalled to the extent that so many people are losing their homes and not trying to regain them. What does that mean? People are out in the streets looking for housing. 
   Let me applaud Mr. Scott and the CBC budget team for recognizing the concept of competitiveness. For in addition to reflecting the need for increased science activity, I am very glad that they have added moneys to aeronautics. They have likewise put in a $175 million plus-up on aeronautics research. 
   Right now as we stand here today, Endeavor is making its way to the international space station. It is there now putting forward outstanding research that will bring about jobs. And that is maintained. 
   Let me also thank them in my concluding remarks to recognize that we must continue to provide for the soldiers, but we want those troops home. We have in this budget language that suggests that any dollars given to the administration must be used to redeploy our troops home. These are the same troops in Iraq and Afghanistan who have been redeployed once, twice, three times, four times. Their families are suffering. This bill provides us with an outlet for these returning soldiers by increasing the educational budget and providing, of course, more for health care, and, yes, fighting the international drudge of HIV/AIDS. 
   So I am grateful for a budget that does not stand on I's and me's. It stands on the we's and the us of America. It gives the Americans, Mr. and Mrs. America, the opportunity to dig out of a hole, to stand above this terrible income gap, and to be able to stand again in a great Nation. 
   This is a great budget. I ask my colleagues to support it.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Budget Substitute for the Fiscal Year Budget for 2009, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, Representative CAROLYN CHEEKS KILPATRICK and my colleague from Virginia, Representative ROBERT C. ``BOBBY'' SCOTT. 
   While I support the Budget as put forth by our majority on the Budget Committee. I believe there is more that needs to be done when this country is on the verge of a recession, the housing market is at one of its worst points in history, and we have a growing population of uninsured Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Congressional Black Caucus, CBC, Budget Substitute for the Fiscal Year Budget for 2009, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, Representative Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick and my colleague from Virginia, Representative Robert C. ``Bobby'' Scott. 
   While I support the Budget as put forth by our majority on the Budget Committee, I believe there is more that needs to be done when this country is on the verge of a recession, the housing market is at one of its worst points in history, and we have a growing population of uninsured Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, it is interesting to listen to my good friends about the tax cuts that they believe will generate happiness in America. I want to remind my friends that the last 8 years have been governed by a Republican administration that has had as the definition of their viability in this country that they are the big tax cutters. And they're right. If you're making a million dollars or you're Warren Buffet, you're celebrating and dancing in the streets. That's the tax cuts that my friend is talking about. But if you're hardworking, middle class Americans that have looked toward the dream that Americans have offered, those who built cars with their hands or drive trucks, teachers and nurses, the very people who made America great, the kind of salt of the Earth that a Thomas Edison came from or a George Washington Carver, then you're not dancing in the street. In fact, you're trying to pick the pieces up and walk through the street. 
   Because if you look at what this administration has generated, $1.47 in 2001, now the average price per gallon $3.13, maybe going to $4, because right now the price per barrel of oil is $110 dollars a barrel. Not only hurting those hardworking Americans, but even in Texas, some of the refineries that hire blue collar workers can barely make it because they can't make a recovery when they're paying $110 a barrel for gas or for oil. They don't answer that question. 
   The Progressive budget is a budget that addresses the heartburn of America. What it says to his children and their grandchildren is that we believe in a domestic agenda that gets you out of the pits of depression and economic recession. We believe in helping children and parents work by improving and expanding early child care and increasing Head Start. If you've got a 1962 car, 1977, 1999, barely you can make it, trying to get to work and pay  child care. We get them out of the doldrums of the recession. 
   We understand that there are people who are now evicted who were homeowners. We give out 200,000 housing vouchers so that those in my district alone, 25,000 people on the waiting list for section 8 and other housing resources, not because they can't work, because there are no facilities for them and because the market is out of control. This is what the Progressive budget does. 
   And then it takes to the least of those, those children in the foster care system that circle around in the system. Who knows who they turn out to be. Maybe it's the unfortunate young men that found themselves on the streets of North Carolina to take the life of a coed. 
   There are tragedies out there, and this budget understands that investing in America and these workers will make a difference. That's why this budget supports an increase in the EITC to increase work incentives and reduce poverty. And it brings the troops home. That's where the money is going. And it doesn't stifle competition. It promotes the space program. It applauds science and math for young people to aspire to space, but it gives those whose pocket has a hole in it, it gives them opportunity.     
   It is a bill, a budget, that stamps out poverty, that recognizes that it is important to not ignore those who you can ignore because they're not in front of you. 
   I applaud Warren Buffett for his ingenuity and his greatness in terms of his economic prowess. But I also applaud Mrs. Jones who gets up every morning at 3 a.m. trying to get to work. This is what she's facing. 
   The domestic budget by the Progressive Caucus should be supported.  
   I rise today in support of the budget substitute offered by the Congressional Progressive Caucus. I support this budget proposal because it represents the mainstream values of our great nation, providing crucial boosts in domestic spending by eliminating expenditure on outdated and obsolete military technologies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me again thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congresswoman Woolsey for their steadfast commitment to addressing the concerns of the most heavily impacted Americans in this most disruptive economic season. 
   Let me remind my friends that we are speaking of a Congress Democratically led for a little over a year. In that time frame, we have, in fact, increased the minimum wage. We have waged a valiant fight for the Children's Health Insurance Program to insure 10 million children. 
   But what you have seen that has occurred, if you will, under this administration, which is really the definition of this Republican minority, they are the residents on the ship captained by this administration. So if they want to talk about what burdens are falling on the American people, the Democratic House and Senate leadership is no more than a year, but the helm of this government has been captained by a Republican administration. And we can clearly see that a surplus existed under the past administration, under the Clinton administration; but under this administration not only have we eaten up the surplus, thrown hardworking Americans under the bus, but it is growing and growing and growing. Now, that is with the so-called tax cuts that this administration insists on making permanent, that the Progressive budget recognizes cannot continue to eat away in the pockets of those who go out and work every day. 
   And to my good friend on the earmarks, let me suggest to him that he might read some of the studies that say that earmarks are fairly distributed. 
   This is the cause of our depression. The Progressive budget should be supported. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I reserve the right to object. 
   Madam Speaker, listening to this discussion and the minority whip, as we have gathered a number of overlays of a discussion, people who are frustrated by the idea of a secret session. 
   Mr. Majority Leader, I am always interested in Members having the full understanding of the challenges that they face. It is important to know that the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Intelligence Committee made every opportunity for Members to engage in materials or to utilize materials that they might find helpful in this discussion on the FISA bill. Certainly members of the two committees, of which I am a member of the Judiciary Committee, had intense opportunity and, of course, meetings in the appropriate place to be able to garner information. 
   To the minority whip, I think what I have heard from Members is a degree of confusion and opposition at the same time. We do understand that majority leader has been most gracious in cooperating with Members who are unready, but our difficulty is that it seems as if it is a tool to delay our full discussion on FISA. 
   I would ask the first question of whether that is the case. Then the other part of it is: There are a number of Members who have already indicated that they will not be present. I am disappointed in that, not in the Members, but in their concern of being held accountable when they debate the question on the floor tomorrow as to why they have said a statement or not said a statement, whether it's relevant or whether it is in this discussion today. 
   The first question: Is this a tool to delay us from the ultimate business that the people of America want us to engage in is to pass a FISA bill from this floor? 
   I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Majority Leader, on a very detailed explanation of why we should do this; however, there are gaping holes in the explanation of why we should do this, the timing of it. I think you are being enormously cooperative. I think it's important for the minority that ask for a privilege to be given a privilege. 
   Mr. Leader, I am concerned, if I might yield to you again, the two-edged sword that Members want to be vigorous in their discussion and want to be open minded, if they participate in this closed session, closed to the American people, the lights out, in essence, questions about the constitutionality, not because it might not have that basis, but others may question it because it is so unique, three times since 1825. 
   What is the standard, what is the criteria for Members' discussion in a closed session and then the Member going to the floor tomorrow and wanting to be within the realm of the rules of debate tomorrow, want to make the right decision, and now may be caught in a two-edged sword?  
   It should not be that a Member has to not come tonight to be fully briefed, as Mr. Blunt seems to think we need to be, and then be in the crosshairs tomorrow when we need to have a full debate in front of the American people. 
   Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, this point was made earlier, but I don't think that it has been clearly enunciated for Members. What you are suggesting is that Members can participate in this discussion. Unfortunately, closed to the American people sounds ominous, and it is unfortunate that we have reached this point, because I do believe that Members have the individual opportunity to visit the Intelligence information, as was made possible by both the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee. 
   But I think it's important to note that a Member could be on the floor this evening and review materials and be in debate, be on the floor tomorrow and say, in my studied opinion on the discussions of last evening, I believe so and so, meaning that I think this FISA bill is solid on its four corners, it is protected, it is constitutional, it protects those individuals covered by it, it gives the American people the sense of national security but also the protection of their civil liberties. 
   They will at least be able to refer in that general term, is that my understanding? They are not completely silenced from even referring to the fact that they were in a secret session last evening or they were looking at materials in a secret condition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, I want it to be clear that a Member can rise on the floor and say, having been in a secret session last evening, not recounting what was in the secret session, but I find that my position remains the same in my support of the bill or my opposition to the bill. One could say that. 
   Members are going to be coming to the floor and some Member may want to say tomorrow that they were here. They would not be reciting what they heard. They would simply say what they heard did not move them or it moved them. Can someone not say tomorrow they were in the session without recounting what you heard? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Having not been in a session, Members don't know the parameters. Minimally they can say they were here, and what they heard, which they don't recount; they can proceed in their debate on how they review the bill. But they don't recount what was heard. 
   I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERMISSION TO RESOLVE INTO SECRET SESSION -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, I indicate to the majority leader and to the minority whip just the discussion here this evening highlights, one, the collegiality of the relationship and the effort, Mr. Leader, you are making, and you are to be commended. 
   But it also highlights the constitutional weakness, if you will, of the understanding of the Members and the whole question of what we are doing before the American public in a secret session. 
   I would like to simply say to the American public it is not that we are denying you the opportunity to be fully informed. It is my understanding that Members are asking to debate information that may be classified or secret. Whether this is the right approach, I take great question to this, and would rather it not be. 
   I think all Members have had access to materials. They can study the FISA bill. The good news is that the American people will have a FISA bill tomorrow passed by this House. 
   I have a continuing reservation. However, at this time I will withdraw my reservation acknowledging that this is both a unique challenge that we are being offered and that it is possible that there is a better way. But I hope the debate tomorrow, in front of the eyes of the American people, will be vigorous and honest and straightforward and that a bill will be passed. 
   Madam Speaker, I withdraw my reservation of objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRIORITIZING RESOURCES AND ORGANIZATION FOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support S. 3325, the ``Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property (PRO-IP) Act of 2007.'' I was a co-sponsor of this legislation when it was introduced before the House as H.R. 4789, and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in support of this legislation. I am confident that this bill can address and strengthen criminal and civil enforcement of United States intellectual property law. 
   The purpose of the Senate bill is to strengthen criminal and civil enforcement of United States intellectual property law focusing, in particular, on copyright violations (piracy) and trademark violations (counterfeiting). In addition, the PRO-IP Act seeks to modernize and improve U.S. government efforts for coordination and enforcement of our nation's IP laws. 
   The knowledge and innovation of American citizens contributes significantly to the economic strength of our nation. Intellectual property law provides the principle incentives that are calculated to lead to the creation and production of new works. This bill is needed because the effect of piracy and counterfeiting on the economy is devastating. Total global losses to United States companies from counterfeiting and copyright piracy amount to $250 billion per year. Every company in every industry is vulnerable. 
   Because these illegal activities represent a growing public health, safety and law enforcement problem, S. 3325 provides additional targeted resources for investigation, enforcement and prosecution; requires the development and promulgation of a national Joint Strategic Plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy; and provides for enhanced Presidential level leadership and coordination among federal agencies involved with preserving and protecting intellectual property rights. 
   Title I of S. 3325 provides enhancements to civil intellectual property laws. Specifically, Title I makes it clear that a certificate of registration will satisfy registration requirements regardless of whether there is any inaccurate information on the registration application, unless the inaccurate information was included with knowledge that it was inaccurate. 
   Title I also broadens the civil remedies for infringement by broadening the scope of articles that may be ordered impounded by the court upon a finding that the article was made or used in violation of a copyright. This Title also directs the court to enter a protective order to ensure that confidential information is not improperly disclosed. 
   Title II provides enhancements to criminal intellectual property laws by addressing repeat offender penalties for criminal acts contained within the criminal copyright statute. Title II clarifies that a repeat offender is a person that commits the same criminal act twice. The bill clarifies that any property subject to forfeiture must be owned or predominantly controlled by the violator in order to be seized and directs the United States Sentencing Commission to consider whether the sentencing guidelines should be expanded to include the export of infringing items. There are enhanced maximum statutory penalties for counterfeit offenses that endanger public health and safety. 
   Title III of S. 3325 provides greater coordination and strategic planning of federal efforts against counterfeiting and piracy. Specifically, this Title establishes within the Executive Office of the President, the Office of the United States Intellectual Property Enforcement Representative and, within that Office, the United States Intellectual Property Enforcement Representative, appointed by the President of the United States. Lastly, Titles IV and V provide international enforcement, national, and local enforcement. 
   While I supported the House version of the bill and I support this Senate version, I would like to consider ways to ensure diversity in the Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property (CHIPs) units that are established by this bill. I would like to work to ensure that minorities be represented in the hiring and that special recruitment initiatives be launched at historically black colleges and universities and other minority serving institutions. We should do all within our efforts to guarantee that minorities receive the necessary training and be recruited to help in the IP enforcement at the Executive, State, and local levels. 
   Simply, Mr. Speaker, S. 3325 is a first step toward the promotion of the American economy. It ensures that American innovation will remain crucial to the United States economy and that American innovation will allow the United States to remain a global economic power. Indeed, this bill ensures that the United States IP laws are enforced and that the American intellectual property system remains one of the best in the world. 
   I urge all members to support this much needed and thoughtful legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MEDICARE IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6600, the ``Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2008'' I would like to thank my colleague Congressman Doggett and the Ways and Means Committee.  
   This legislation today to require the federal government to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare identification cards and communications to Medicare beneficiaries. 
   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which administers the Medicare program, has fallen behind most other public and private organizations in recognizing the danger of displaying Social Security numbers. The Social Security Number Protection Act ensures that the Social Security numbers of Medicare beneficiaries are properly protected. 
   Every year, millions of Americans are victims of identity theft--many after their Social Security numbers are stolen. Instead of leading by example, the federal government is lagging behind private health insurers and other public agencies in protecting Medicare recipients from identity theft. CMS's continued use of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards needlessly places people at risk. 
   This bill ensures that a premium is placed on security and that personal information is protected. It makes no sense for a CMS to continue exposing Medicare beneficiaries to the risk of identity theft. We should pass this bill quickly and fix this problem once and for all. 
   I believe that this is one of those clear-cut problems that is easy to fix. With identity theft on the rise, removing social security numbers from Medicare beneficiary cards is the smart thing to do. Identity theft is one of the fastest-growing crimes in the nation. Nearly 8.4 million people were victims of identity theft last year alone, and these crimes accounted for more than $49.3 billion in fraudulent charges. 
   Nearly three years ago, Senator Durbin raised concerns about the use of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. Because of his efforts, CMS issued a report to Congress hat outlined the steps that would be required to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, but has failed to implement those changes. 
   In May 2008, the Inspector General of the Social Security Administration issued a report which concluded that: ``Given the millions of individuals at risk for identity the and OMB's directive to eliminate unnecessary uses of Social Security numbers, we believe immediate action is needed to address this significant vulnerability. 
   Today's legislation sets a timeframe for CMS to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards and communications to beneficiaries. The bill will: 
   Require the Health and Human Services Secretary to implement procedures to eliminate the unnecessary collection, use, and display of Social Security numbers of Medicare beneficiaries within three years; 
   Prohibit the display or the unencrypted electronic storage of Social Security numbers on newly issued Medicare cards; 
   Prohibit the display or the unencrypted electronic storage of Social Security numbers on all Medicare cards with five years of enactment; and 
   Prohibit the display of Social Security numbers on written and electronic communications to Medicare beneficiaries, unless essential for the operation of the Medicare program. 
   I am proud to cosponsor legislation that will protect our elderly. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5057, the ``Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008'' (reauthorizing Title II of P.L. 108-405). This Act authorizes funding to eliminate the large backlogs of DNA crime scene samples awaiting testing in State forensic labs. I am in support of this bill. 
   In recent years, law enforcement agencies have realized the critical value that DNA evidence has in quickly solving cases. Often, a DNA sample result can scientifically link a perpetrator to a crime or prove a defendant's innocence with virtual certainty. Many of the Nation's Federal and State criminal forensics laboratories currently are overwhelmed with innumerable samples awaiting DNA analysis. 
   Named for Debbie Smith, who was kidnapped in her Virginia home and raped in nearby woods by a stranger, the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program authorized grant money to states to collect samples from crime seems and convicted persons, conduct DNA analyses, and enter these results into a comprehensive national database. Debbie Smith's attacker remained unidentified for over six years, until a DNA sample collected from a convicted person serving time in a Virginia State prison revealed his involvement in her rape. Although eventually identified, the six years between crime and identification allowed Ms. Smith's attacker to engage in more criminal activity. 
   Re-authorization of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program will help law enforcement throughout the Nation. It will facilitate the development of a comprehensive national data base against which samples from current crime scenes can be compared. It will allow laboratories to reduce the currently unacceptable delays in processing DNA samples. Finally, it will provide law enforcement and prosecutors strong tools to quickly identify and prosecute criminals, minimizing the costs of investigation and prosecution, the possibility of prosecuting the wrong person and the possibility of future heinous crimes. 
   Recognizing that the backlog of biological evidence that had to be entered in State databases was preventing law enforcement officials from solving many of the Nation's most heinous crimes, like the tragedy that befell Debbie Smith, Congress passed the DNA ``Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000'' (P.L. 106-546). The bill authorized the Attorney General to make grants to eligible States to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and crime scenes for inclusion in the Federal DNA database, Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), and to increase the capacity of State crime laboratories. The Act required the Bureau of Prisons and the military to collect DNA samples from convicted individuals and forward these samples for analysis, and required the FBI to expand its CODIS database to include the analyses of these DNA samples. 
   The Act also amended the criminal code to require all defendants on probation or supervised release to cooperate with the collection of a DNA sample. The Act expressed the sense of Congress that State grants should be conditioned upon the State's agreement to ensure post-conviction DNA testing in appropriate cases; and that Congress should work with the States to improve the quality of legal representation in capital cases. Finally, the Act authorized an unspecified amount of appropriations to the Attorney General to carry out the Act. 
   In 2004, DNA backlog elimination was incorporated into the Justice for Act of 2004'', P.L. 108-405 and was renamed the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program, which became Title II of P.L. 108-405. While the Act authorized $151 million for each fiscal year 2005-2009, Congress did not appropriate any money until FY 2008, at which time it appropriated $147-4 million. 
   The Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program expires at the end of FY 2009. H.R. 5057, the ``Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act,'' which has strong bipartisan support, would renew the law and authorize $151 million for each fiscal year 2009-2014. H.R. 5057 specifies that not less than 40% of the total amount awarded in grants must be used for DNA analyses of samples from crime scenes, rape kits and other sexual assault evidence, and in cases that do not have an identified suspect. 
   AMENDMENT 
   While I support this legislation, I offered an amendment that was accepted and reported out of the House. However, now that the bill has returned from the Senate, the bill is before the House again without my original amendment. My amendment required the Attorney General to evaluate the integrity and security of DNA collection and storage practices and procedures at a sample of crime laboratories throughout the country to determine the extent to which DNA samples are tampered with or are otherwise contaminated in such laboratories. The sample should be a representative sample and should include at least one lab from each State. My amendment required the Attorney General to conduct this evaluation annually and the Attorney General should be required to submit the evaluation to Congress. This amendment was necessary and critically important. 
   A district attorney in Harris County, Texas used evidence to wrongfully convict persons based upon faulty evidence. An investigation into the Houston Police Department's crime lab revealed that bad management, under-trained staff, false documentation, and inaccurate work cast doubt on thousands of DNA based convictions. Investigators raised serious questions about the reliability of evidence in hundreds cases they investigated and asked for further independent scrutiny and new testing to determine the extent to which individuals were wrongly convicted with faulty evidence. 
   My amendment would have ensured that Congress will exercise some oversight of the program. It ensured the integrity and security of the DNA collection and storage and procedures. It was my hope that my amendment would minimize wrongful convictions and would make the DNA storage and collection process more reliable.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROTECTING COURT OFFICIALS OFF SUPREME COURT GROUNDS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 3296, a bill to extend the authority of the United States Supreme Court Police to protect court officials of the Supreme Court grounds and change the title of the Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice. This bill makes sense and it should be supported. I urge my colleagues to support this very important bill. 
   Four years ago, Supreme Court Justice David Souter was assaulted by two men while jogging near his home. While this attack was deemed only a random assault, this should serve as a wake-up call for us all. The Supreme Court, like the Office of the President, is more important than the person serving in the position. Protecting them, isn't just about protecting the person, it's about protecting the sanctity of the court. 
   Edmund Burke said that ``Good order is the foundation of all things.'' To keep this order, we much protect those who provide that order. As this country becomes more and more partisan, we risk that the more extreme factors in our society will lash out and circumvent the system by focusing their anger at the officers of the court. Already the court is coming under increased attack from both sides of the aisle as being ``activist.'' 
   This bill does something fundamental for the American way of life, it protects it. The legacy  of all those who came before us depends on making sure that those who come after can do the job duty requires. Nothing is more fundamentally American than protecting those who protect our rights. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask that we pass this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NEED-BASED EDUCATIONAL AID ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1777, the ``Need-Based Educational Aid Act of 2007.'' This bill is co-sponsored by Representative Delahunt. This bill makes sense and it should be supported. I urge my colleagues to support this very important bill. 
   H.R. 1777 would make permanent an exemption to the antitrust laws that permits the Ivy League schools to agree to award financial aid on a need-blind basis and to use common principles of needs analysis in making their determinations. The exemption also allows for agreement on the use of a common aid application form and the exchange of the student's financial information through a third party. Without this legislation, the exemption will expire on September 30, 2008. I support this bill. 
   Beginning in the mid-1950s, a number of prestigious private colleges and universities agreed to award institutional financial aid, i.e., aid from the school's own funds solely on the basis of demonstrated financial need. These schools also agreed to use common principles to assess each student's financial need and to give the same financial aid award to students admitted to more than one member of the group. This practice remained undisturbed until the late 1980s. 
   In 1989, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice brought suit against the nine Ivy League schools to enjoin this practice. In 1991, the eight Ivy Leagues, except MIT, agreed to a consent decree that ended this practice. 
   In 1992, Congress passed a temporary antitrust exemption to allow the schools to agree to award financial aid on a need-blind basis and to use common principles of needs analysis. This temporary exemption prohibited any agreement as to the terms of a financial aid award to any specific student. It was to expire on September 30, 1994. 
   In 1994, Congress passed another temporary exemption from the antitrust laws. This exemption, similar to the 1992 exemption, allowed agreements to provide aid on the basis of need only and to use common principles of needs analysis. It also prohibited agreements on awards to specific students. Unlike the 1992 exemption, it allowed agreement on the use of a common aid application form and the exchange of the student's financial information through a third party. The exemption was to expire on September 30, 1997. 
   In 1997, Congress passed a law to extend the expiration date until September 30, 2001. In 2001, the exemption was extended to September 30, 2008. 
   H.R. 1777, introduced by Representative Bill Delahunt and Ranking Member Lamar Smith, would make the exemption passed in 1994 permanent. It would not make any other change to the substance of the exemption. 
   This is a good bill because need-based financial aid serves social goals that the antitrust laws do not adequately address, namely, making financial aid available to the broadest number of students solely on the basis of demonstrated need. 
   But for the existence of financial aid, and laws like this one, many of us today in Congress and in America, generally, would not have benefited from a post-secondary school education. We must pass this bill today to ensure that Americans continue to benefit from need-based financial aid at institutions of higher learning.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LOYAL OPPOSITION -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. It's an important time in American history in the opportunities for Americans, and in re-stating the value of our Constitution, and our respect for democracy. Through the long history of America, we've come to know the terms ``majority'' and ``minority'' and the words that sometimes fall to our early history and to our relationship with Great Britain--England. We know the words ``loyal opposition.'' This morning, I want to share with my friends in this House how sometimes the loyal opposition can be loyal to a fault. 
   There are always ways of saying what you would have and should have done, but as I watch the slow process and progress in Iraq, I want to remind my friends on the other side of the aisle, the Republicans, of the lockstep commitment that they made to the administration on a war that, of course, was misdirected. We're all united behind our soldiers, but 4,000 are dead, and of course, it was the important opposition of the Democrats who persisted and said that Afghanistan has to be the focus. That was the genesis of 9/11. That was where the terrorists were. That was where the Taliban was. We insisted day after day after day that to go into Iraq, to create the destabilization, to, in essence, create the havoc of death, to move the Baathists out of Iraq created the years of devastation and the loss of life--4,000-plus dead Americans and tens and tens of thousands of Iraqis. 
   Of course, I applaud the changes that have been made now. Of course, I recognize the great valor of our soldiers and of the Iraqi soldiers who have managed to overcome through great hardship, but isn't it interesting: As we have the soldiers announced to come home from Iraq, what happens? What the Democrats said should happen. More soldiers are going to Afghanistan. Bloody fights are taking place on the Pakistani and Afghan border. Again, Republicans, loyal to a fault. 
   Of course, now there is great discussion about drilling. I practice oil and gas law. I come from Texas. I'm not afraid of drilling, but I recognize the American people are smart enough to know that we must have a seamless energy policy. We are like a fruit basket. The fruit basket has a multiple of fruit--some you like, some you don't--but we enjoy it, the seamless energy policy, unlike the loyal opposition that is on one song and one refrain over and over again. There must be alternatives--biofuel. There must be the look-see at what we can do with clean coal. There must be, as T. Boone Pickens has indicated, wind and solar, and yes, you must find a way to organize a drilling program that, in essence, allows States to opt in. Floridians may have a different perspective, New Yorkers and Californians as opposed to Midwesterners. We know that we must become energy independent, but the loyal opposition has one song, one dance, and it won't work. 
   Then, of course, when you talk about how much affection we have for our veterans, it's the Democrats who fought and fought and fought to get the first GI bill of rights since World War II to give the opportunity to our returning Iraqi veterans more than the yellow ribbons. We want to give them an opportunity for education and home-buying. We want to give them a leg up. I have legislation to declare a national day of honor so that people don't come home when the lights are off, that we welcome our returning soldiers home with a day of honor and celebration in every Hamlet City and everywhere in America. That's what Democrats are thinking out of the box. That's why we want to make a difference, not just the loyal opposition to a fault. 
   Then, of course, we hear talk of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It so happens that the collapse came under this administration, and my fear is that, as the government seizes it in the dark of night on the weekend when Members of Congress are not here, what special contractors will get the deal? Who is going to benefit from seizing it? Of course I want to stabilize the housing market. Of course I want the hardworking real estate persons across America to work, but let me say that the Democrats are standing up and are being counted on behalf of the American people on health care, education, energy, and otherwise, our loyalty is to them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RED CROSS TO THE MILITARY -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 937) expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the emergency communications services provided by the American Red Cross are vital resources for military servicemembers and their families, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RED CROSS TO THE MILITARY -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   First let me commend my colleague from Texas, Dr. MICHAEL BURGESS, for introducing this important resolution and for his work in support of the American Red Cross. All of us have watched the American Red Cross reform itself, but we have also known that its brand name has represented the aid to help, the anchor in the time of storm. 
   In times of emergency and other important events, the American Red Cross has the important and at times difficult duty of notifying military servicemembers on behalf of their families about such events. The Red Cross provides critical information to commanding officers to help them decide whether to release a servicemember from duty in order to join with his or her family in time of crisis. 
   Regardless of whether it is a birth notice or a tragedy, such as the devastating floods in the Midwest, the Red Cross ensures the timely delivery of vitally important messages and ably provides the families of military servicemembers with the support and assistance they need until the servicemember returns home. This resolution recognizes the critical mission that the American Red Cross undertakes in providing information about these events to military servicemembers. We are all thankful to the Red Cross for carrying out this important work. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RED CROSS TO THE MILITARY -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, let me say that the Red Cross has often been the comforting arm for the United States military families. I want to thank Dr. Burgess and his cosponsors for the great work he has done on this legislation. I would like to also thank the staff of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the chairman, Mr. Berman, and the ranking member, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. 
   I would also like to add on H. Con. Res. 334, the global food crisis legislation, that I would also like to thank the staff of the Foreign Affairs Committee and my staff, Johannes Tsehai, for their hard work on that. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to ask for strong support on the legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 1069) condemning the use of television programming by Hamas to indoctrinate hatred, violence, and anti-Semitism toward Israel in young Palestinian children, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my friend from New York, Joe Crowley, for introducing this timely and important resolution. Despite the shaky cease-fire reached between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip, Hamas has neither changed its explicitly stated aim to destroy the State of Israel nor given up the use of terrorism and violence as a means to achieve that end. 
   But while Hamas' use of terrorism to undermine peace and destroy Israel is well understood in the West, few are aware of its sophisticated use of broadcast media to spread hatred of the United States, Israel and Jews, and to incite Palestinian youth to violence. 
   Hamas has had its own television station, known as al-Aqsa TV, which is telecast throughout the Arab world. Among its many crude and contemptible practices, al-Aqsa TV utilizes cartoon characters and puppets, one resembling Disney's universally recognized Mickey Mouse, in programming that advocates terrorism, anti-Americanism and anti-Semitism. 
   On March 30, 2008, this TV station broadcast a puppet show depicting the stabbing and murder of the President of the United States. This morally twisted type of children's programming violates all civilized norms, cynically undermines prospects for Israeli-Palestinian peace, and flagrantly violates phase I of the U.S.-backed roadmap for peace, calling for an end to incitement in Palestinian society. It even stigmatizes the Palestinian people who want peace, many of them fighting every day to ensure that there is an opportunity for collaboration and dialogue and peaceful discussion with Israel. In fact, I would imagine that children who are watching are certainly not children who are intending to grow up to be terrorists. 
   The resolution puts this body on record supporting the overdue designation of al-Aqsa television as a specially designated global terrorist entity. Such a designation would follow logically from the administration's designation of Hezbollah's al-Manar TV as a specially designated global terrorist entity 3 years ago. This designation proved useful in persuading a number of satellite companies around the world not to transmit al-Manar's hate-filled broadcasts. Designating Hamas' al-Aqsa TV would similarly send a strong message to satellite companies transmitting its vile programming, including one of Europe's largest satellite companies, the privately-owned, French-based Eutelsat. 
   In addition, this resolution calls on Saudi Arabia, the primary shareholder in the Arab League-owned satellite Arabsat, to take the lead in ending Arabsat's transmission of al-Aqsa TV, as well as Hezbollah's al-Manar TV. Thanks to Arabsat, both al-Aqsa TV and al-Manar TV are seen throughout the Middle East and beyond. 
   Unfortunately, our friend and ally Egypt is also involved in transmissions of hate media. Egypt's state-owned satellite, NileSat, broadcasts at least two terrorist mouthpieces, the Hezbollah station and the Iraq focused station and an Arabic language network affiliated with anti-American insurgent activity. This latter network consistently telecasts material glorifying insurgents and their attacks on American forces. 
   It would be especially important if our allies and friends would recognize that it is our intent to collaborate and work toward uplifting forthright, educational, politically sound conversation and dialogue. It is not our intent, of course, to control their own sovereignty, but it is important when that gets out into the world marketplace that it is civil, that it is strong, that it is democratic, that it is fair, and that it is reflective of the human dignity of all people. 
   It is deeply dismaying that one of our strongest allies in the region and one of the largest recipients of U.S. Foreign assistance tolerates the advocacy of attacks on Americans in Iraq on its state-controlled satellite provider. 
   I know that the terrorists like Hamas and Hezbollah will not soon  abandon their mass-media means of hatred and violence, but it is long past the time for all state-owned and privately-owned satellite companies around the world to cease transmitting these destructive messages that encourage the murder of Americans and Israelis. 
   That is why I strongly support this resolution, and I urge all my colleagues to join me in that support. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I want to add for the Record that the author of the legislation, Congressman Crowley, is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and a member of the Ways and Means Committee. 
   It now gives me great pleasure to yield 2 minutes to Congresswoman Shelley Berkley, who is a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, the Ways and Means Committee, but a former member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING MIDEAST TV PROGRAMMING THAT INCITES VIOLENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentleman. And let me, in supporting this legislation, indicate that there are friends that we have mentioned. And we hope that our allies such as Egypt will work with us to address what has been noted as particularly heinous comments and use of the airwaves. 
   Respecting our own viewpoints of protecting the first amendment, we do believe in that. But we also know that even though our law is not international law, that crying fire in a crowded theater certainly is not acceptable. 
   Teaching children to murder heads of states is not acceptable. Let us try to work and collaborate and point out these ills so that we can promote peace and democracy around the world. I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE VALUES AND GOALS OF THE U.S.-BRAZIL ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PACT -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 1254) supporting the values and goals of the ``Joint Action Plan Between the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Government of the United States of America to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Discrimination and Promote Equality,'' signed by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Brazilian Minister of Racial Integration Edson Santos on March 13, 2008, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE VALUES AND GOALS OF THE U.S.-BRAZIL ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PACT -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me generally, Mr. Speaker, thank the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Berman, and the ranking member, Ms. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, both of whom are now conducting a hearing regarding the relationship between Georgia and Russia, for their leadership on these legislative initiatives. And I want to thank the Chairs and ranking members of the subcommittees from which these legislative initiatives have come forward. 
   It is well noted the Foreign Affairs Committee works collaboratively together, and I guess it continues to be in the spirit of our fallen leader, Representative, former chairman, Tom Lantos.  
   So let me thank our colleagues, Congressman Eliot Engel and Dan Burton, the chairman and ranking member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, for introducing this important resolution. 
   Brazil and the United States both share a history of slavery in the Americas. The legacy and residual effects of that common history remain with both our countries long after the abolishment of slavery throughout the hemisphere. 
   The experience of race and the phenomenon of racism has been treated and understood very differently in Brazil than it has in the United States. Brazil holds the largest and one of the most ethnically diverse and racially mixed populations in the world.     
   Historically, Brazil's multi-ethnicity has taken its own unique path, devoid of the spasms of violence and resentment that have characterized similar historical moments in the United States. In fact, in the 20th century, Brazil's tolerance and accommodation came to be known as ``racial democracy'' and became a source of great pride for its people. 
   Having been to Brazil on several occasions, I can attest to the fact Brazil and its people seem to be constantly working on finding racial accommodations, racial democracy. 
   Significant changes have taken place in the U.S. and Brazil in the issue of race and racism in the past two decades. Today, Brazilian self-identity regarding race has become more nuanced. The undeniable fact of Brazilians as a mixture of different races has run headlong into the notion of racial exclusion. To paraphrase Professor Edward E. Telles of UCLA in his book ``Race in Another America: The Significance of Skin Color in Brazil,'' Brazilians today grapple with how their society can at the same time reflect inclusiveness and the differences that make them unique. 
   The United States and Brazil have much to learn from each other in this realm. The ways in which our racial histories have diverged, and more recently the ways in which they have converged, offer much to share and even more to discuss. 
   As I mentioned, as I have traveled to Brazil, I have seen the opportunity to make everyone a Brazilian. We here are now talking about the fact that different groups want to be acknowledged for their own cultural history, and also, as we have made everyone a Brazilian, different groups have noted that only one group of those Brazilians have been able to ascend to the highest corporate ranks as well as governmental ranks. 
   Therefore, it is especially timely, then, that we take up this resolution recognizing how our racial histories currently affect minority communities and celebrating the goals of a joint action plan between our two governments on racial and ethnic discrimination. 
   This resolution supports the ``U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Discrimination and Promote Equality'' that was signed by Secretary Rice and Brazilian Minister of Racial Integration Edson Santos in March of this year. 
   The Joint Action Plan is an agreement between both governments to create opportunities for minorities in the U.S. and Brazil to become active in technical, academic, and cultural exchange programs. It creates the Steering Group to Promote Equality of Opportunity, which will consist of a panel of government officials from both the United States and Brazil to facilitate the exchange of information and the best practices for antidiscrimination measures and develop ideas on how to bilaterally promote racial and ethnic equality. 
   I want to applaud the Afro-Brazilians Parliamentarians of whom I've had the opportunity to meet with who have been a persistent voice in asking for this approach to avoiding discrimination and promoting affirmative action. 
   I also want to thank my good friend and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Gregory Meeks, who has worked on these issues and as we have traveled together to express our concern about discrimination in Brazil. 
   This Joint Action Plan is only one part of the expanding strategic relationship between the United States and Brazil and is a positive step in strengthening that friendship and promoting racial and ethnic equality. 
   Yes, we applaud racial democracy in Brazil. We applaud the race-neutral stances that they've taken, but now we applaud even more the opportunity to cite different ethnic groups and their contributions to Brazil in giving them a greater equal opportunity in Brazil. 
   Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE VALUES AND GOALS OF THE U.S.-BRAZIL ANTI-DISCRIMINATION PACT -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentleman's comments in support of this legislation. I, too, agree that this partnership between Brazil and the United States through our respective state departments and foreign ministers will be a great asset to creating equal opportunity in Brazil. 
   Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I ask that our colleagues support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE USS ``CONSTELLATION'' IN THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (H. Res. 1159), recognizing the historical significance of the United States sloop-of-war Constellation as a surviving witness to the horrors of the Transatlantic Slave Trade and a leading participant in America's effort to end the practice. 
   The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE USS ``CONSTELLATION'' IN THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me first thank Congressman Elijah Cummings for introducing this resolution honoring the USS Constellation, a 153-year-old American Warship that now is restored as a museum in the Baltimore Inner Harbor.     
   This historic ship serves as a reminder of the role that the United States Navy played in the abolition of the Transatlantic slave trade. 
   In 1787, our Nation began to adopt legislation to prohibit the importation of slaves to the United States and the transport of slaves from the U.S. to other parts of the Western Hemisphere. Over the next several decades, the U.S. Government joined with the British in deploying naval vessels along the African coastline to intercept slave ships, rescue kidnapped victims and place them under international jurisdiction, and return them to homelands in Africa. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is sometimes little known history, and I congratulate my colleague from Maryland of highlighting the fact that the good news is, even though it took long years to end slavery in the United States, they began to stop the transportation and importing of slaves, and they vigorously used the United States military in the name of the United States Navy. 
   The USS Constellation was the flagship of an eight-ship fleet that comprised the U.S. African Squadron. The Constellation captured 14 slave ships and rescued nearly 4,000 Africans from a life of forced servitude in the Americas. 
   Launched in 1854 from the Chesapeake Bay's Gosport Navy Yard at Portsmouth, Virginia, the USS Constellation served our country for 100 years before its final decommissioning in 1955, I would venture to say, a long, long time. Maybe its good work of preventing the importation of slaves allowed it to have a long life with good health. 
   After serving the anti-slavery effort, the USS Constellation was charged with chasing Confederate raiders during the Civil War, and served as a training ship for the midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis from 1871 to 1893. The ship was brought to Baltimore's Inner Harbor in 1955 and restored as the USS Constellation Museum. 
   This is a historic year, 2008, as we watch presidential politics. This legislation is an appropriate testament to the history of the United States and doing the right thing as it relates to slavery here in this country. It also incorporates our recognition of the United States Navy and the United  States military as fighting for the unity of this Nation and the promotion of equality and justice for all Americans. Ending slavery was contributing to the Constitution and the Bill of Rights that offered to say that we all are created equal. 
   I thank our colleague, Congressman Cummings, and I rise in strong support of this resolution, because this resolution celebrates the USS Constellation as a historic reminder of the battle to end slavery and of the role and capabilities of the Navy's elite vessels of that era. They continue to serve us, and I strongly support the resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE USS ``CONSTELLATION'' IN THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank both Mr. Cummings, the author of this bill; Mr. Greg Meeks, a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Mr. Cohen, and ask my colleagues to enthusiastically support this legislation  that emphasizes the importance of the United States Navy in ending the Transatlantic slave trade, H. Res. 1159. 
   I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THAT WE ARE FACING A GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me indicate to my friends and colleagues that I thank the chairman of the full committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Berman, and the ranking member, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, for their collaborative effort in this legislation that I am now offering today, and it is interesting that we bring this legislation to the floor of the House at a time that we have watched the Caribbean being ravaged by one hurricane after another. 
   One of the most unfortunate scenes or incidences that have occurred is the constant beating, if you will, of the island of Haiti, the nation of Haiti, a long-time ally and friend of the United States. 
   My legislation speaks to prioritization of children during the food crisis and this global food crisis that has been occurring over the last couple of months. Now, more than ever, with the ravaging of Haiti through the Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, we know that children are suffering. There are places in Haiti where rescue teams for food and water cannot even rise or locate or be able to reach. Therefore, I rise today to speak to an issue as fundamental as our basic needs as human beings, and that is the travesty that we must address. But, unfortunately, we have to do so. 
   We are facing a global food crisis, now compounded by natural disasters. Furthermore, this food crisis is not only having a wide impact in countries far away, but also right here at home in our hemisphere. 
   In a nation with plenty, many of our children are going to bed with nothing to eat. Tackling worldwide hunger is a moral imperative which threatens the political and economic stability of a multitude of developing nations. The recent dramatic increase in food prices will continue to have a destabilizing affect in already unstable regions of the world where so many lives are already vulnerable to ongoing conflicts and political turmoil. 
   According to the United Nations, over 850 million people in the world are chronically or acutely malnourished, and over 300 million of these are children. The statistics are both shocking and tragic. Can you imagine the impact now with the natural disasters. Globally, a child dies every 7 seconds. Malnutrition caused by chronic hunger leads to the death of an estimated 5.6 million children under 5 years old, and roughly 1 in every 4 children under 5 years old is underweight. 
   Rising food prices have precipitated a crisis situation. On March 20 of this year, the U.N. World Food Program made an urgent appeal to the United States and other food aid donors for an additional $500 million to fill a funding gap caused by rising food and fuel prices. Since then, this gap has expanded. It is now an estimated $755 million. 
   As food prices rise, children are the first to suffer. Hunger is a condition of poverty. Living below poverty puts tremendous strains on a household, giving families barely enough money to purchase healthy and nutritious foods, as well as other essentials of life. Nutrition research shows that as income goes down, the nutritional adequacy of the household's diet goes down as well. 
   According to the data released by the U.S. Census Bureau, 50.9 million people, or 17 percent of all Americans, if we can imagine, lived on less than 125 percent of Federal poverty level in 2007.  This is the ``borrow from Peter to pay Paul.'' This is people who probably are suffering, even with food stamps. This means they are income-eligible for most Federal nutrition programs like food stamps and other child nutrition programs. These programs can help families and children stretch their food dollars and get access to healthy foods. 
   To set the poverty level, the U.S. Census Bureau uses a set of income thresholds based on the Consumer Price Index. In 2007, the Federal poverty guideline for a family of four was $21,203. The new Census data shows that 37.3 million persons, or 12.5 percent of our population, lived in poverty. My friends, it is happening worldwide, including the United States of America. 
   Children continue to be the poorest age group in the country, with 13.3 million children, or 18 percent of all children under age 18, were poor; a larger percentage than any other group; 20.8 percent of related children under age 6 in families lived in poverty; 9.7 of all Americans 65 and over, or 3.6 million elderly, were poor; and the poverty rate for non-Hispanic whites was 8.2 percent, 24.5 for African Americans, 21.5 for Hispanics, and 10.2 for Asians. 
   As the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am particularly concerned about the devastating impacts that hunger and malnutrition have on children. Mr. Speaker, I have been in the feeding camps of Africa. I have watched as they have come in trucks to be able to deliver the food. I am sympathetic, and I understand when people are hungry, but the stampede of adults stampeding past children, or even sometimes the children being used to get more food and not having it distributed, is an issue. 
   Lack of adequate nutrition stunts children's growth, leaves then more vulnerable to numerous diseases, and affects their ability to learn. Even temporary deprivation of essential nutrients can have a lasting impact on children's physical growth and intellectual potential. Under current conditions, more and more children face the prospect of growing up malnourished. 
   On May 7, with the help of 46 of my colleagues, I introduced H. Con. Res. 344, recognizing the global food crisis, the disproportionate effect rising food prices have on children, and calling for the prioritization of the nutritional needs of children. 
   My resolution calls for the United States and other G8 nations to continue to monitor the impact of the global food crisis on children and commit to increasing their assistance to respond to the global food crisis, and, specifically, responding to the needs of children impacted by the global food crisis. 
   I hope in the passage of this legislation that a statement can go forward to those who are helping in sending humanitarian aid to Haiti and others in the Caribbean that we get a focus on the children during this, if you will, this disaster. 
   It is important to note that along with the Global Health Caucus and the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, we held a briefing on the effect of the global food crisis on children. We heard from UNICEF, the World Food Programme, Save the Children, World Vision, Christian Children's Fund, and the Congressional Hunger Center, and Danny Glover, all emphasizing the importance of this issue. Therefore, I look forward to continuing to focus on this, with rising food prices, families in needs, the loss of nutrition, and yes, the amount of children that suffer. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to note that when we think, we should think of children who are constantly suffering, being able to have cups of milk, which emphasizes why it is important to ensure that children don't look like this who are here and around the world. 
   My predecessor, Congressman Mickey Leland, died in Ethiopia, as I always say, on the side of an Ethiopian mountain, because he was trying to end world hunger. In his name and those who have gone on, the Congressional Hunger Center, it is important to recognize the children. 
   I want to thank my colleagues, Representatives MCGOVERN, PAYNE, MCCOLLUM, and BLUMENAUER, for their work on hunger and water issues, and I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak of an issue so fundamental to our basic needs as human beings that it is a travesty that we must address it--but unfortunately we do. We are facing a global food crisis. Furthermore, this food crisis is not only having a widespread impact in countries far away, but also right here at home and in our hemisphere. 
   In a nation with plenty, many of our children are going to bed with nothing to eat. Tackling worldwide hunger is a moral imperative which threatens the political and economic stability of a multitude of developing nations. The recent dramatic increase in food prices will continue to have a destabilizing effect in already unstable regions of the world where so many lives are already vulnerable to ongoing conflicts and political turmoil. 
   According to the United Nations, over 850 million people in the world are chronically or acutely malnourished and over 300 million of these are children. The statistics are both shocking and tragic: globally, a child dies every 7 seconds, malnutrition caused by chronic hunger leads to the death of an estimated 5,600,000 children under 5 years old, and roughly one in every four children under 5 years old is underweight. 
   Rising food prices have precipitated a crisis situation. On March 20 of this year, the U.N. World Food Program made an urgent appeal to the United States and other food aid donors for an additional $500 million to fill a funding gap caused by rising food and fuel prices. Since then, this gap has expanded, and is now an estimated $755 million. As food prices rise, children are the first to suffer. 
   Hunger is a condition of poverty. Living below poverty puts tremendous strains on a household, giving families barely enough money to purchase healthy and nutritious foods, as well as other essentials of life. Nutrition research shows that as income goes down the nutritional adequacy of the household's diet goes down as well. 
   According to data released by the U.S. Census Bureau, 50.9 million people, or 17 percent of all Americans, lived on less than 125 percent of the Federal poverty level in 2007. This means they are income-eligible for most Federal nutrition programs, like food stamps and other child nutrition programs. These programs can help families and children stretch their food dollars and get access to healthy foods. 
   To set the poverty level, the U.S. Census Bureau uses a set of income thresholds based on the Consumer Price Index. In 2007, the Federal poverty guideline for a family of four was $21,203. 
   The new Census data shows that 37.3 million Americans--or 12.5 percent of our population--lived in poverty in 2007. Children continued to be the poorest age group in the country: 13.3 million children, or 18 percent of all children under age 18, were poor--a larger percentage than any other age group; 20.8 percent of related children under age six in families lived in poverty; 9.7 percent of all Americans 65 and over, or 3.6 million elderly, were poor. The poverty rate for non-Hispanic whites was 8.2 percent, 24.5 percent for blacks, 21.5 percent for Hispanics, and 10.2 percent for Asians. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am particularly concerned about the devastating effect that hunger and malnutrition have on children. Lack of adequate nutrition stunts children's growth, leaves them more vulnerable to numerous diseases, and affects their ability to learn. Even temporary deprivation of essential nutrients can have a lasting impact on children's physical growth and intellectual potential, and, under current conditions, more and more children face the prospect of growing up malnourished. 
   On May 7, 2008, with the support of 46 of my colleagues, I introduced H. Con. Res. 344, legislation recognizing the global food 
   crisis and the disproportionate effect rising food prices have on children, and calling for the prioritization of the nutritional needs of children. 
   My resolution calls for the United States and the other G8 member states to continue to monitor the impact of the global food crisis on children and commit to increasing their assistance to respond to the global food crisis, and specifically, responding to the needs of children impacted by the global food crisis. 
   In addition, the Congressional Children's Caucus, together with the Global Health Caucus and the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, held a briefing on the effect of the global food crisis on children. Members of Congress heard from panelists from UNICEF, the World Food Programme, Save the Children, World Vision, Christian Children's Fund, and the Congressional Hunger Center, as well as special guest Danny Glover, to galvanize the United States Congress to take action on this important issue. 
   As a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus, I will be hosting the Children Issue Forum on September 25, 2008. The panel will be on the Global Food and Water Crisis. I will again convene experts on this crisis, not only to look at how we arrived at such  disastrous food levels but how we solve this issue. 
   As a result of rising food prices, families throughout the world, particularly in developing nations but also here in the United States, are increasingly facing a decision between quantity and quality when buying food. With incomes stretched thinner by the day, many families must either buy significantly smaller quantities of food, or purchase less nutritious food. In times of food crisis, families face cuts in expensive foods, such as meat, fruit, and vegetables. 
   The loss of these nutritious foods, in favor of cheaper staples such as rice and maize, is extremely detrimental to children's development, putting them at greater risk of disease or stunted growth. The full extent of the consequences of deprivation of vital nutrients during essential stages of growth is not known. However, it is clear that once children's growth is stunted by malnutrition, they do not catch up to their peers. 
   While it is important that we respond to the emergency we currently face, our solutions must take a long-term view as well. We cannot simply provide increased food aid; we must address the root causes of chronic hunger by addressing systemic problems with food production and food prices in the developing world. If we do not, we risk finding ourselves facing recurring food crises in the coming years. 
   In the midst of this current food crisis, I am reminded of my distinguished predecessor, Congressman Mickey Leland. In 1989, Congressman Leland lost his life in Ethiopia, fighting the same battle against global hunger that we continue to face today. It is tragic that, in the year 2008, we still have not learned to draw the links between hunger, violence, and instability. I thank my colleagues Representatives MCGOVERN, PAYNE, MCCOLLUM and BLUMENAUER for their work on hunger and water issues. But we cannot leave this to only a few Members, we must all work together now, and we must find a way to win the war on hunger.  
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THAT WE ARE FACING A GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. 
   In closing, I'd like to thank my 46 cosponsors and thank my distinguished friend from Texas for his support of this legislation. As well, having no further speakers, I would like to yield back and ask my colleagues to strongly support prioritizing children and helping us to end or to solve the global food crisis and the negative impact on the world's children and American children.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING SEEDS OF PEACE -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 337, ``Honoring the Seeds of Peace for its 15th Anniversary as an Organization.'' I would like to thank my colleague Congressman  ALLEN for introducing this important resolution, which I am proud to cosponsor, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman BERMAN, for his leadership in bringing this resolution to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, fifteen years ago, in 1993, Seeds of Peace hosted its first international conflict resolution camp. In that first year, amidst regional conflict and fighting a history of hatred, the organization brought together Israeli, Palestinian, Jordanian, and Egyptian youth. Founded by journalist John Wallach, Seeds of Peace initially brought together 46 Israeli and Arab youth. Since that time, Seeds of Peace has offered summer camps for youths from conflict regions around the world and from the United States, involving young people from the initial countries as well as from Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, the Balkans, India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. These summer camps have made enormous strides toward fostering cultural and religious understanding. 
   Seeds of Peace empowers a new generation of leaders with the tools they need to overcome prejudice and to communicate and negotiate effectively. The summer camps help these youth to develop empathy, respect, and confidence, while giving their ``enemies'' a human face. The young people who attend these summer camps are the same people who will grow up to build a future of peace and stability. There are now nearly 4,000 young Seeds of Peace leaders who are working to make a positive difference in some of our world's most troubled regions. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I strongly believe in investing in our children. By doing so, we are investing in our future. Long-term peace between warring parties, including Arabs and Israelis, Indians and Pakistanis, and Afghans and Pakistanis, is dependent on the emergence of a new generation of leaders able and willing to engage in constructive dialogue. 
   By bringing young people from different backgrounds together in a recreational environment, Seeds of Peace lays a foundation for sustainable peace by facilitating interaction among young leaders before their fears, mistrust, and inherited prejudices have permanently shaped their vision of their ``enemy.'' After spending a summer at camp in Maine, participants and teachers continue to interact through regional and international programming, furthering the dialogue among and across nationalities. Seeds of Peace supports the development of future leaders. 
   In addition to these summer camps for children from conflict regions, Seeds of Peace now operates a domestic program called ``Maine Seeds,'' addressing ethnic and racial tensions between diverse communities in Maine. Also, in 2004, Seeds of Peace launched its ``Beyond Borders'' initiative, bringing teens from additional Middle East countries, such as Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait, to participate in a cultural exchange program between American and Arab youth. 
   Mr. Speaker, while the Arab/Israeli peace process has moved forward haltingly since 1993, Seeds of Peace has grown into a major organization that continues to foster interaction among thousands of young leaders and educators from around the world. It continues to build upon the basic premise the prejudices dispelled during youth will be prejudices dispelled for life. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution, honoring Seeds of Peace for its fifteen years of promoting reconciliation, coexistence, and peace among youth of the Middle East and other conflict areas.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF THE INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF SANITATION -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I would like to thank the distinguished gentleman and the ranking member of the subcommittee and the chairman and the ranking member of the full committee. I would like to thank Chairman Payne in particular for introducing this important resolution. And I am very proud to cosponsor it because it is clearly a life-and-death matter. When you talk about sanitation and the removal of waste and the removal of sewage, you are talking about the lives of children. And as the cochair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, let me acknowledge that the most vulnerable to unsanitary conditions are children. In the disease that spreads, they are, in fact, the victims. 
   Global sanitation coverage has increased from 49 to 59 percent between 1990 and 2004. And that is, in essence, allowing over 1 billion people throughout the world to gain improved sanitation in the past 14 years. Pregnant women, nursing mothers and, of course, young children are, in fact, the bigger victims. 
   I am particularly troubled that 90 percent of these deaths that I have mentioned of those who died because of lack of access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation are children under 5, mostly in developing countries. As I mentioned, children are particularly hard hit by poor sanitation, paying a high price through missed schooling, disease, malnutrition and even death. An estimated 1.5 million children die each year due to poor sanitation, hygiene and unsafe water. UNICEF reports that girls are particularly vulnerable, missing out on schooling once they hit puberty, due to the lack of clean and safe latrines. 
   As the world's only remaining superpower, I think it is important to avert this humanitarian crisis. Chairman Payne, I believe that this is an important, constructive way of avoiding this massive death. Simply put, the Millennium Development Goal on basic sanitation would avert 470,000 deaths. And it would continue to do so. According to economic analysis, depending on the region of the world, economic benefits have been estimated to range from $3 to $34 for each dollar invested in it. 
   Let me just indicate that this is common sense. It is, again, human dignity. And as I close, let me also add my support for H. Con. Res. 337 honoring the Seeds of Peace. It is a program that I am very much aware of, having participated with the young people who have come from Israel and Palestine who have sat down together as teenagers and said we want peace. It was founded by John Wallach. Seeds of Peace initially brought 46 Israeli and Arab youths together. It has spread now to Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, the Balkans, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. These summer camps are enormously important. Again, the Congressional Children's Caucus believes that children are not only our tomorrows, they are our yesterdays and todays. 
   And I want to thank the chairman of the subcommittee for his leadership in these areas. And with that I ask my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 318 and as well the following bill H. Con. Res. 337. And again, I thank Mr. Payne for his leadership.  
   I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 318, ``supporting the goals and ideals of the International Year of Sanitation.'' I would like to thank my colleague Congressman PAYNE for introducing this important resolution, which I am proud to cosponsor, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman BERMAN, for his leadership in bringing this resolution to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, In 2007, the United Nations declared 2008 to be the International Year of Sanitation, to raise awareness of the importance of sanitation and its impact on reaching other Millennium Development Goals and to recognize progress made in achieving the global sanitation target detailed in the Millennium Development Goals. In addition, the International Year of Sanitation is intended to call upon all Member States, United Nations agencies, regional and international organizations, civil society organizations, and other relevant stakeholders to renew their commitment to attaining the target. 
   As my colleagues are aware, in September 2000, the United Nations adopted the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that challenged the global community to reduce poverty and increase the health and well-being of all peoples. Two years later, in September 2002, at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the United States and the rest of the international community reaffirmed these goals and added access to basic sanitation as a centerpiece of the poverty eradication commitments. The target to halve the proportion of people without access to basic sanitation by 2015 was defined in the Johannesburg Plan of Action. 
   We have begun to make important progress. Over one billion people, throughout the world, have gained access to improved sanitation in the past 14 years. Global sanitation coverage has increased from 49 percent to 59 percent between 1990 and 2004. These gains represent substantial improvements in the quality of life and basic health for countless people. 
   Mr. Speaker, despite the establishment of these goals, billions of people still lack access to safe drinking water and sanitation, and we are not on target to meet the Millennium Development Goal to reduce by half the proportion of people without access to basic sanitation by 2015. Today, over 2.4 billion people--half the developing world--lack access to basic sanitation and 1.1 billion people have no access to any type of improved drinking source of water. As a direct consequence, over 1.6 million people die every year from easily preventable diseases attributable 
   to lack  of access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I am particularly troubled that 90 percent of these deaths are children under 5, mostly in developing countries. Children are particularly hard hit by poor sanitation, paying a high price through missed schooling, disease, malnutrition, and even death. An estimated 1.5 million children under five die each year due to poor sanitation, hygiene, and unsafe water. 
   In addition to claiming too many young lives, poor sanitation reduces children's ability to grow and develop, stunting the economic and social development of the entire nation. UNICEF reports that girls are particularly vulnerable, missing out on schooling once they hit puberty due to the lack of clean and safe latrines. 
   As the world's only remaining superpower, the United States has a moral obligation to take the lead in averting humanitarian catastrophe. Increased access to sanitation would have an enormous impact on the lives of people throughout the world. Simply put, meeting the Millennium Development Goal on basic sanitation would avert 470,000 deaths. In addition, achieving the target would bring enormous economic gains. Meeting the Millennium Development Goal would result in an extra 320 million productive working days every year, and would bring considerable benefits to investment. According to economic analysis, depending on the region of the world, economic benefits have been estimated to range from $3 to $34 for each dollar invested in access to basic sanitation and safe water. 
   Mr. Speaker, even as our attention is consumed by rising food and fuel prices, it is vital that we do not lose focus of the equally vital goal of basic sanitation. The resolution that we are considering today recognizes the importance of sanitation on public health, poverty reduction, economic and social development, and the environment and encourages all Americans to observe the International Year of Sanitation with appropriate recognition, ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate the importance of sanitation, hygiene, and access to safe drinking water in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
   Mr. Speaker, the benefits of meeting the Millennium Development Goal on basic sanitation would be dramatic and global. We have the opportunity to drastically improve the international community's ability to reduce global poverty, and to improve the health of people worldwide. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DON'T ALLOW PERMANENT BASES IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished Speaker, and I thank her for her leadership. 
   We will in just a few minutes begin to talk about a very serious issue on universal access to health care, so I rise today to remind my colleagues that we are still in a very troubling conflict in Iraq. We are still spending billions and billions and billions of dollars. Even in the last few days I have seen the loss of young sons, young brothers, young men in my own community. We have buried a number of our fallen soldiers in the Houston, Harris County and South Texas metroplex. 
   We recognize that we are a nation that is willing to send her very best, her very brightest, to the front lines of Iraq and Afghanistan and places around the world to defend the honor, but yet the need for freedom and democracy. But this is a war that the American people over and over again, 60 to 70 percent have said we must bring our troops home. The American people have said enough is enough. 
   We honor those who have fallen. We honored them in this memorial week. I was in Aviano, Italy, and celebrated there at the Air Force base with the young men and women, the fallen, who fell on foreign soil. It was my honor and my privilege to be there, and I will do so wherever there is the opportunity to say thank you to those that live injured, for those who gave the ultimate sacrifice. We will never dishonor their service. 
   So I claim that today we can call the actions in Iraq, albeit my opposition to the offense or the invasion of Iraq by this country, we can call it a military success. We can call it a military success and bring our soldiers home. 
   What disturbs me, Madam Speaker, is that this Nation, this administration, is negotiating for foreign bases on Iraq soil, U.S. bases on the soil of Iraq, when over and over again this Congress has voted against maintaining long-term bases, U.S. bases, in Iraq. We have said it clearly. We have said it over and over again. 
   So I raise the question as to why is the administration engaging in negotiations for permanent military bases without the engagement and the affirmation of this Congress that has said to the administration that we do not want permanent military bases and neither do the people of the United States? 
   Now, I recognize that we have the responsibility of transition as the new administration comes in. I am believing that the new administration that will come in to be President of the United States will be the administration that will oppose this war and that will begin to bring our troops home. 
   But if, for example, we were concerned about transition, let me simply say, we are aware that we have a Central Command in the region. It is an active Central Command. It will be headed by General Petraeus for the next couple of months. 
   There is no reason why when that region is in need that under the Central Command the appropriate military operation can be dispatched, if necessary, to the region, to Iraq and to other places around. It seems to be a smack in the face of Congress that has over and over again said that it is time to bring our troops home, that we cannot spend millions and millions and billions more of dollars in Iraq. 
   It is time for Iraq to secure its own security, to defend itself, to build its own military bases. And, yes, we are quite happy to continue to train those Iraqi soldiers, which I visited with in the last couple of months. I was there. I saw them. They are committed and dedicated, the Iraqi soldiers. Their generals are committed and dedicated. Give them the opportunity to finance their own bases, to finance the military. But enough is enough. I believe the American people have spoken. 
   So I say to the administration, we will not tolerate permanent bases on the soil. And I want to thank the Progressive Caucus with the leadership of Congresswoman Woolsey and Congresswoman Lee, the Out of Iraq Caucus with Congresswoman Waters, both of which I am a member of. We have worked on this. We have heard from the American people. We have heard testimony. 
   Frankly, this is an insult to the Members of the United States Congress, when we know that there are alternatives to ensuring the safety and security of the region, and we also know that the American people have spoken. 
   I stand with the American people. The needs are great. We must use this money for other reasons, bringing our soldiers home, training them, creating a green economy, making sure that we have the education we should and the health care that we should. It is time now to bring our troops home, and certainly it is time now to end this frivolous debate about permanent bases in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MERIDA INITIATIVE TO COMBAT ILLICIT NARCOTICS AND REDUCE ORGANIZED CRIME AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me associate myself with the words of our chairman. This is in the interests of the American people. I thank Chairman Berman for introducing this legislation and the ranking member, as well, for the collaboration that our committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee, always engages in. 
   I think it is important to note that this is an initiative that was entered into by the United States and Mexico that announced a multiyear, $1.4 billion plan to use U.S. assistance to combat drug trafficking and other criminal organization activities. This has been labeled the ``Merida Initiative,'' and the administration has requested $500 million. 
   Some would ask why? Because we are at a crisis. And I come from the State of Texas. There is bloodshed on the border. The violence is enormous. The wars between drug cartels have caused some 1,800 to 1,900 deaths to Mexicans in the first 9 months of 2007. And it is attributable to the cartel-related violence. More than 60 American citizens have been kidnapped in Nuevo Laredo, a Mexican town directly across the border from the city of Laredo, a fine, wonderful city. And the mayors of those cities have come and asked for relief. But unfortunately, it hasn't been listened to in the way that I believe it could be. Recognizing that the violence or the cause is not Laredo or the border towns as much as it is the violence that is now spilling over. 
   So I hope as we move forward in our initiative it will have a number of elements to it, and certainly one of the elements has to be the war against drugs here in the United States. It is important to note that Mexico is, in fact, the main foreign supply of marijuana and meth, and as well even though there is a small production of heroin, interestingly enough, they are a large producer of the heroin supply here in United States. 
   And for this reason, there needs to be a number of collaborations. I disagree, for example, with the Secretary of Homeland Security, who says that we can't put the virtual fence at the border because he realizes that we are being conflicted by the questions of a barrier fence, reasonably so, because we are used to the ingress and egress of trade in that area. And so I hope this initiative will have a balance and recognize that we have to look at many options to secure the border. 
   I want to also make mention of the fact that I am a member of the Homeland Security Committee and will hope, as this legislation moves forward, that we will have a collaboration with the Department of Homeland Security with this effort. You cannot make this work unless DHS is involved. 
   And I was prepared to offer an amendment that dealt with assessing the role of the relevant United States Government departments and agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, in supporting the Merida Initiative, providing specific information on what staff, equipment and other resources the relevant United States Government departments and agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security would need to support this initiative, and assessing the impact of the initiative on the border security operations of the relevant United States Government departments and agencies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MERIDA INITIATIVE TO COMBAT ILLICIT NARCOTICS AND REDUCE ORGANIZED CRIME AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the chairman. 
   Assessing the impact of the Merida Initiative on the border security operations of the relevant United States Government departments and agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, and identify additional resources, if any, that the relevant United States Government departments and agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, need to make available to carry out this initiative. 
   I recall specifically as a member of the Subcommittee on Border Security writing legislation and the ranking member on the Immigration Subcommittee in our past Congresses on providing more resources for our Border Patrol. It was interesting that the administration was always voicing their leadership on the idea of border security, and our Border Patrol agents were suffering. There were not enough. They didn't have the kind of speedboats, night goggles and computers. Now you see it is like night and day because of legislation carried by members of the Democratic Caucus. 
   And so it is important that as we go forward we find a collaboration of the Department of Homeland Security because human trafficking and drug trafficking are intertwined. The violation of the borders is intertwined with all we are doing here, and we need to have a collaboration with the Department of Homeland Security. I support this initiative, and I know it can be expanded.  
   I rise today in cautious support of H.R. 6028, the ``Merida Initiative to Combat Illicit Narcotics and Reduce Organized Crime Act of 2008.'' I would like to thank my colleague  Congressman Berman for introducing this legislation, as well as for his ongoing leadership as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. While I do support this bill, I am extremely disappointed in the manner in which it was brought to the floor today. Like many Members, I have outstanding concerns about this legislation that have not yet been addressed, and I believe Members should have been given the opportunity to offer amendments to this important and far-reaching bill. I remain concerned about human rights in the region and I believe that the United States must do far more to address the demand for drugs in the United States, but I also believe that this legislation represents a positive step toward partnering with our southern neighbors to combat a problem that we share. 
   Mr. Speaker, I had planned to introduce an amendment to this legislation that will require the President to submit a report 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentlelady from California for yielding, and let me add my appreciation for the vast knowledge that she brings, particularly as it relates to the comparisons of our health care, to the international system of health care, having been an ambassador and knowing, really, some of the stark contrasts between nations that are developing and have a better health care system than we have here in the United States. 
   I want to add my appreciation as well to Chairman John Conyers, who has single-handedly led the cause and the fight for universal access to health care, particularly as it relates to the legislation that all of us are looking forward to seeing passed, because this is legislation that clearly is enormously important. 
   So I want to speak today on some issues and share some stories of individuals who are suffering in the State of Texas. Maybe those who are within the sound of our voices will understand that we do not take your plight lightly. We have heard Members come on the floor of the House and talk about the spiraling gasoline prices, we have heard them talk about the crisis in the housing market. 
   I was in my district, and we had an hour-long program, and we really couldn't end the program. It was a television program, and all of the questions were on the foreclosure market. The producer came out and said, they don't want to ask any other questions. They just want to ask about the foreclosures. 
   People are hurting, and if you juxtapose the high food gasoline prices high food prices and your mortgage being foreclosed on, or no place to live, can you imagine what it is like? You can imagine, with no health insurance, catastrophic conditions, with the backdrop of the spiraling unemployment, then I would say that we have a human crisis, an American crisis where people are falling on the spear. 
   Yesterday, I introduced the Medicare Efficiency and Development of Improvement of Care and Services Act, MEDICS Act, of 2008. It is a complement to universal access to healthcare. But if we had universal access to health care, many of these issues would not have to be, if you will, remedied piece by piece. 
   Just to give you a very brief overview, the bill that I introduced has an elimination of discriminatory copayment rates of Medicare outpatient mental health services. It also prohibits and limits certain sales and marketing activities under Medicare Advantage, and it has exemptions from income and resources for determination of eligibility for low-income subsidy. 
   One of the key elements is if you are on Medicaid and you die, this eliminates the ability of States to collect from your estate, you don't have anything. It may be that you are leaving minimal resources to your children, and lo and behold, they want to grab that up to pay for the long-term care that you needed while you were in the hospital under Medicaid, more insult to your dignity. 
   So very quickly let me say that I rise to support H.R. 676, the United States National Health Insurance Act, that is sponsored and introduced by my colleague, Chairman Conyers, of which I am an original cosponsor. I would just simply say in the State of Texas when you look at HIV and STDs, for example, there are 22,948 total AIDS cases in Harris County, this was in 2005. These are people who may have health issues we have to address. 
   According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, 72.9 percent of African Americans in Texas are overweight, while 60.3 percent of the Anglo white population are overweight. That bodes for an unfortunate health situation. 
   H.R. 676 would cover health care costs and would decrease for both families and for businesses. Currently the average family of four covered under an employee plan spends $4,225 on health care, $2,713 on premiums and $1,522 on medical services. 
   I would say to you that under H.R. 676 a family of four making the medium income of $56,200 would pay about $2,700 for all health care costs, including the current Medicare. 
   Is that not a reformation of this system? Is that not a light at the end of the tunnel? Businesses would benefit as well. They would pay a 4.75 percent payroll tax for all health care costs, including the current Medicare tax. For an employee making a median annual family income of $56,000, the employee would pay about $2,700 per year. That is the answer that we are giving tonight and why we are here on floor of the House. 
   We want you to know, our colleague, that there is relief. We can move H.R. 676, which is based on the traditional Medicare model and provide health care coverage for a family of four that is drastically different from the crisis that they are facing today, because today they are facing a crisis such that if they are in any catastrophic illness you can be assured that they will have no relief. 
   Let me close by sharing with you two very painful stories, and you can understand why, might I say to you, there are pages and pages of stories of those who are suffering in this dilemma of having to pay for all of these expenses and short-changing their families on health care. 
   The lack of health care leads to death. Impossibly high gas prices can lead you to public transportation, it may lead you to walking. It may lead you not to going to places where you have not often gone, but you are still alive and might even be healthy. The lack of food may mean that you have a little less on the table, and it may mean your health, but it actually will not kill you directly. 
   Certainly we know that we want better education and our troops home. But if you do not have good health care, it can lead to your death. Whether it's preventive health care, whether it's mental health services, it can actually lead to the death of your loved one. Poor health care can lead to the death of your loved one. 
   We are speaking of life and death. This story is from Mike. ``I lost my job as an RN for advocating for better staffing ratios and patient safety.'' That means here is a registered nurse who is trying to fight for better quality of health care, got fired. ``With that job loss, I lost my medical insurance. On New Year's Day I had an ocular stroke. I was having symptoms for a couple of days prior, but without medical insurance, decisions are made in a different manner.''     
   ``I put off the treatment because I didn't have money to pay. In the process I delayed treatment, and now I am blind in that eye. If I had insurance, I would have sought treatment sooner. I am a health care professional who delayed treatment decisions because of the cost and lack of insurance.'' 
   This person could have died. Now they are blind which limits I imagine some of their occupational opportunities. They are blind because America allowed them to live without health insurance. 
   This is my final testament to the crisis we are in. This is from Robin: ``My daughter has a developmental disorder, something in the autism spectrum, her pediatrician has guessed. I am not certain of the extent of the diagnosis of her disorder due to the lack of my funds, being a single mother, and lack of quality health insurance. I can scrape together money to take her to the doctor if she has any routine sickness, and I push my budget the best I can to pay for 30 minutes of private speech therapy a week to complement what the school system provides. But there is so much more she needs. She could do so much better with medication that could possibly help her lead a decent life. If I could afford to get the extensive tests and evaluations, and even then, who knows if I could afford the medicine. She cannot qualify for SSI or Medicaid; they say I make too much money. That is an outrage. She cannot qualify for CHIPs; again, they say I make too much money. But I don't. Once I pay for day care, speech therapy, clothing, car insurance, food and shelter, transportation, the rising cost of gasoline, $38,000 gross without child support is not enough money. Can you imagine that they say $38,000 kicks her out of Medicaid and the CHIP program, especially when all your daughter can qualify for is a super-expensive health insurance risk pool. What can I do? I want the American dream, but I cannot have it. I am stuck in this old, falling-apart apartment with an old car and inadequate health coverage with my sweet, 7-year-old daughter. God help us, she deserves better.'' 
   God help America. America deserves better. This universal access to health care is what we all should believe is the American dream. 
   I close by simply saying what our Founding Fathers said: We all are created equal with certain inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I will just simply say that God has to help us come to our senses and pass this legislation, H.R. 676, authored by my dear friend, John Conyers, and cosponsored by so many of us, otherwise God help us. 
   I thank the gentlelady for her great leadership on this issue.  
   I regard health care as one of the most pressing issues facing this country and the world. I have been a staunch supporter of legislation that aims to eliminate health disparities in this country, fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic, combat the childhood obesity crisis facing this Nation, and provide health insurance coverage for all Americans. Most of all, I strongly believe that quality healthcare should be affordable and accessible to all. 
   Yesterday, I introduced the Medicare Efficiency and Development of Improvement of Care and Services Act (MEDICS Act) of 2008. For decades, Democrats have been fighting to fix the broken America's healthcare system and this initiative is an important tool to make sure that our most vulnerable get the healthcare they need. 
   As a long supporter of Universal Health Care, I happy to announce that this legislation puts our healthcare system on the correct path of providing access to health care for our Nation's low income, minority and elderly populations. On Friday June 6, 2008, my colleague Senator Max Baucus introduced a health care reform bill that addresses these key problematic issues continuing to plague our health care system. I am happy to announce that The MEDICS Act is the companion bill to Senator Baucus' legislation, uniting Congress on one accord to push for crucial healthcare reform. In 2007, there was an estimated 47 million people uninsured in our Nation. This is un-American and unacceptable. Now is the time to ensure that every citizen has access to the proper health care benefits they need. 
   In my house companion I have added a section requiring that within one year of enactment the Secretary, in coordination with the Association of American Medical Colleges, shall submit to Congress an effective plan to increase the number of primary care physicians particularly those practicing in counties, cities, or towns ``underserved'' or with a disproportionate number of Medicare-eligible and/or Medicare recipients. Without our primary care physicians, which act as the gateway to care we can never move towards an effective universal healthcare plan. 
   According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, Texas HIV/STD Surveillance Report, there were 22,948 total AIDS cases in Harris County in 2005; a figure which almost doubled the next closest county in Texas. 
   According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, 72.9 percent of African Americans in Texas are overweight or obese while 60.3 percent of White residents are obese. 
   The need for a high-quality, accessible and affordable health care system has never been more urgent. There are currently 47 million uninsured Americans, 8 million of whom are children. Another 50 million are underinsured. Although the U.S. spends twice as much on health care per capita as countries with universal coverage, the World Health Organization ranks us 37th in overall health system performance. 
   This Congress, I am an original cosponsor of H.R. 676, ``The United States National Health Insurance Act,'' introduced by my colleague Congressman Conyers. This act would allow for every American to receive heath Insurance. 
   H.R. 676 would create a publicly financed, privately delivered health care system that improves and expands the already existing Medicare program to all U.S. residents, and all residents living in U.S. territories. The goal of the legislation is to ensure that all Americans will have access, guaranteed by law, to the highest quality and most cost effective health care services regardless of their employment, income or health care status. You, the American people called for universal health care, as it was one of the most prominent issues for Americans in the 2006 elections. 
   The need for a high-quality, accessible and affordable health care system has never been more urgent. There are currently 47 million uninsured Americans, 8 million of whom are children. Another 50 million are underinsured. Although the U.S. spends twice as much on health care per capita as countries with universal coverage, the World Health Organization, ranks us 37th in overall health system performance. Major American corporations such as General Motors bear the brunt of an outdated health care system because they are at a competitive disadvantage relative to their international counterparts who pay less for health care. A Harvard study found that almost half of all bankruptcies are partially or fully related to health care bills. 
   Universal health care would not cause a financial burden on American families. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), ``If the U.S. were to shift to a system of universal coverage and a single payer, as in Canada, the savings in administrative costs [10 percent of health spending] would be more than enough to offset the expense of universal coverage.'' 
   Under H.R. 676, health care costs would decrease for both families and for businesses. Currently, the average family of four covered under an employee health plan spends a total of $4,225 on health care annually--$2,713 on premiums and another $1,522 on medical services, drugs and supplies. This figure does not include the additional 1.45 percent Medicare payroll tax levied on employees. Under H.R. 676, a family of four making the median family income of $56,200 per year would pay about $2,700 for all health care costs, including the current Medicare tax. 
   Businesses will also save money under universal health care, as set forth by H.R. 676. In 2006, health insurers charged employers an average of $11,500 for a health plan for a family of four. On average, the employer paid 74 percent of this premium, or $8,510 per year. This figure does not include the additional 1.45 percent payroll tax levied on employers for Medicare. Under H.R. 676, employers would pay a 4.75 percent payroll tax for all health care costs, including the current Medicare tax. For an employee making the median annual family income of $56,200, the employer would pay about $2,700 per year. 
   Our plan, H.R. 676, ``The United States National Health Insurance Act,'' guarantees every resident of the United States access to a full range of medically necessary services, including primary care, prescription drugs, mental health care and long term care. There are no co-pays or deductibles under this program. The role of the government would be limited to collecting revenues and disbursing payments; care would continue to be delivered privately. Patients could continue to use the same hospital, physician or health clinic from which they currently receive services. H.R. 676 is supported by over 210 labor unions and more than 100 grassroots groups across the country. The former editor of the New England Journal of Medicine, two former Surgeons General and 14,000 physicians support national health insurance. 
   H.R. 676 is based on the traditional Medicare model, in which the government negotiates and pays service fees for private and  public providers and mails its enrollees a card that gives them access to the doctors and hospitals of their choice. This system does not divert profits to insurance companies. This legislation is focused, first and foremost, on serving the American people, not on generating profits for big companies. 
   Lack of health-care is no longer just a concern of those living in poverty. According to recent reports, more than one-third of the nearly 47 million uninsured Americans coming from households with family incomes of $40,000 or more, lack of health insurance has become a worry of the middle class. 
   There is no reason why this country should continue down a dreadfully deleterious road of denying healthcare to any citizen of this country who needs it. Many of the health conditions, such as diabetes, obesity, kidney failure, cancer, hypertension and HIV/AIDS, the prevalence of which plagues our community the most, could be curtailed or even prevented if everyone had access to health insurance. I will continue to fight hard for the most effective policy measures that aim to narrow the racial health disparity gap.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairperson of the Africa Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs and the full committee chair, Mr. Berman, and the ranking member of the full committee, Ms. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and the ranking member of the subcommittee that Mr. Payne chairs. 
   This is an important reiteration of this Congress' commitment to the premises of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And I might read, in part, the language of this declaration that says, ``The recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.'' 
   I believe that there is no better time than the time that we are engaged in today, the era of the world status, to reemphasize the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  
   The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed it on December 10, 1948, and the language stated that it was declared as a ``common standard of achievement for all peoples and nations.'' Sadly, in the 21st century, when we would hope to be celebrating the foundation of freedom, justice and peace to the world, the world is conflicted. It is conflicted in Iraq, where the different, distinctive ethnic groups of Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds are engaged in violations, respectively, of each of them by the other. And so even in a place of disruption in Iraq, in a war that I oppose, we have concerns that are ignoring the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We must call for the protection of human rights in Iraq. We must call for the protection of human rights in Iran. 
   Today, I had the chance to speak to a young woman in Iran long distance, international conversation to Miriam, a young woman of 22, who had a wonderful vision in front of us for freedom, and the ability to be the best interior designer the world would know. To do that, she must have freedom, justice and peace in the world. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights must apply to Iran. 
   And as we look to the tragedy in Burma, now some weeks old, to understand that the junta continues to oppress those who suffer from the terrible and horrific tragedy that occurred, that people sit along roadsides trying to find, if you will, the resources that will come to them through the international aid organizations, and their oppressive regime is denying them that right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Can you imagine that the human rights and dignity of those who are already brutalized through a horrific tragedy of catastrophic proportions are now denied their human dignity because this oppressive regime in Burma refuses to allow the international aid organizations to go forward? 
   I hope by our reemphasizing this declaration, that we will stand in abhorrence, in outrage over such undignified treatment. And then I would ask, as we move forward, that we can no longer tolerate the genocide in Sudan, and the completely reckless response of the Sudanese Government in Khartoum to the dignity and human rights of those in Darfur. 
   We have a litany of those. Those Tibetans who continue to fight every day in Tibet simply to be acknowledged, simply to allow the Dalai Lama to return over religion reasons. And to think that he has to be denied the right to come back over religion reasons, Mr. Speaker. They allow him to come on political reasons, on government affirmation, on saluting the government, but just to be able to engage in his religious, if you will, explanation, he is denied his human rights, the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. We could give a roll call along the way of the travesties of justice. 
   Might I compliment and announce the change-around in Liberia with President Johnson, who recognized a nation that had literally burned the principles of human dignity and human rights; now, with her stellar leadership, she is restoring the dignity to the Liberian people. 
   It can be done. It can be done in Sudan. It can be done in Bangladesh. It can be done in Burma. It can be done in North Vietnam. It can be done in places where oppression exists. But I rise today to recount the tragedies of denial of human rights, but also to applaud those who have overcome. And I believe it is our responsibility to not only applaud them, but to encourage them. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation, and let us do it by words and deeds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SCHOOL SOCIAL WORK WEEK -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my support of House Resolution 978, designating March 3-7, 2008, as ``School Social Work Week'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from Rhode Island, Representative Patrick Kennedy. This important legislation recognizes and celebrates the many contributions of school social workers in our schools, communities, and government agencies. 
   Social work is a relatively young profession with roots in the social reform movements, self-help societies, and social service organizations which formed in the latter half of the 19th century to provide assistance to the needy and oppressed. Today, social workers are committed to serving culturally diverse populations and the oppressed, promoting social justice, providing leadership in social policy formulation and implementation, and advancing the knowledge base of the profession. School social work is a specialized area of practice within the broad field of the social work profession that works directly with children, families, schools, and the community at-large. 
   School social workers bring unique knowledge and skills to the school system and the student services team. School social workers enhance the school district's ability to meet its academic mission, especially where home, school and community collaboration is the key to achieving that mission. 
   The position of school social workers in local school systems has grown rapidly in the last few years. As schools look at preparing students both academically and socially, the role of the professionals working with students has expanded. Effective school social work services contribute not only to a healthy school environment, but benefit society as a whole. They provide crisis intervention, counseling services, and support; they link students and families with school and community resources; and they work with all school personnel to help students succeed. 
   Working one-on-one with a student or designing group activities that reinforce successful learning skills, school social workers create a team environment where everyone works for the betterment of their students. Student success is heightened when families, teachers, and school social workers work collaboratively to provide positive school-home communication. Earlier this month, Texas held its Seventeenth Annual School of Social Work Conference. 
   The Texas School Social Worker of the Year Award went to James Montoya of Nacogdoches Independent School District. Mr. Montoya has been a social worker for over 30 years, with the last 8 as a school social worker. For the past 5 years, he has produced and hosted a local television show, ``La Conexion Hispana.'' This production highlights resources in the community, features school personnel and Hispanic leaders who model and encourage students to stay in school, and provides Mr. Montoya with an opportunity to reach out and ``touch'' many families throughout the region. He is the first social worker to serve in this capacity and this is the first Spanish program of its kind to be offered in the region. In August 2005, following Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Montoya was instrumental in registering over 800 displaced students into the school district. His efforts included working in the shelters and providing translation services to those in need. I would like to congratulate him and the many school social workers like him, for all the work they have done and continue to do for our children, our communities, and our country. 
   As a member of the Children's Caucus, I am proud to support House Resolution 978 and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important piece of legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 930, supporting the goals and ideas of Career and Technical Education Month, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Washington, Representative Baird. This important piece of legislation expands the pathways to social and economic mobility, for more people in this country. 
   Career and technical education is a substantial enterprise in this country. Thousands of comprehensive high schools, vocational and technical high schools, area vocational centers, and community colleges offer career and technical education programs. Virtually every high school student takes at least one career and technical education course, and one in four students takes three or more courses in a single program area. One-third of college students are involved in career and technical programs, and as many as 40 million adults engage in short-term postsecondary occupational training. 
   Eighty-five years after the passage of the first piece of Federal vocational education legislation, career and technical education is evolving from its original and sole focus on preparing students for work immediately following high school. Today's career and technical education programs increasingly incorporate rigorous and challenging academic  content standards and provide a nonduplicative sequence of courses leading to an industry-recognized credential or certificate, or an associate or bachelor's degree. 
   In my district, we have several vocational and technical schools and programs such as the Bradford School, ITT Technical Institute, Everest Institute, Remington College at Houston, and American Intercontinental University in Houston. Each of these schools and programs is committed to providing the skills and technical knowledge necessary for entry-level employment positions in business and industry. 
   Career and technical education is about helping students, workers, and lifelong learners of all ages fulfill their working potential. First and foremost it's about high school and college education that provides students with: (1) academic subject matter taught with relevance to the real world, often called contextual learning, (2) second-chance education and training for the unemployed and those seeking to upgrade their employability skills, and (3) corporate training, continuing education, skills upgrades and refresher courses for those already in the workplace. 
   I join Congressman Baird in raising awareness about the increased need for career and tech programs that will better prepare and train America's growing workforce. I have long supported education initiatives that not only seek to educate, but to also inspire entrepreneurship. I support this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL RUSSEL L. HONORE -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 944, honoring the service and accomplishments of Lieutenant General Russel L. Honor&#233; United States Army, for his 37 years of service on behalf of the United States. I would like to thank my distinguished colleague Congressman DAVID SCOTT for introducing this important legislation, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor. 
   Mr. Speaker, Hurricane Katrina was one of the darkest hours of our Nation's recent history. Although the courage and generosity demonstrated by the American people was nothing short of heroic, the response of the federal government, especially FEMA, was nothing short of an embarrassment. I never imagined that my neighbors in New Orleans would be called and treated like refugees in war ravaged developed countries. The response of the Bush Administration was unacceptable. 
   However, even in the midst of tragedy and mismanagement, many Americans throughout this country stepped up to help those affected by this disaster. This demonstrated that once again in our darkest hour that we united as a nation to help our brothers and sisters who sought to recover and rebuild their lives. In particular, a small number of extraordinary individuals became true heroes; one of the most remarkable was Lieutenant General Russel Honor&#233;. 
   Called by New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin a man who can ``get some stuff done,'' Lieutenant General Honor&#233;'s life is truly an American story. Born in Lakeland, Louisiana, General Honor&#233; graduated from Southern University and A&M College in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. After graduating with a baccalaureate degree in vocational agriculture, General Honor&#233; was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army. General Honor&#233; eventually graduated from Troy State University with a master's degree in Human Resources and received an honorary doctorate in public administration from Southern University and A&M College. 
   General Honor&#233; began his distinguished military career serving in a number of infantry command positions for the Army, including overseas tours in Germany and as a commanding officer in the Second Infantry Division in Korea. He saw action in Iraq and Kuwait during Operation Desert Storm. Honor&#233;'s experience and skill made him a logical candidate to serve as vice director for operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff; deputy commanding general and assistant commandant of the United States Army Infantry Center and School at Fort Benning, Georgia; and assistant division commander, maneuver/support for the First Calvary Division at Fort Hood, Texas. 
   But more than his impressive record of military service, Lt. General Russel Honor&#233; is perhaps best known for his strong leadership attributes. Lieutenant General Honor&#233; commanded the First United States Army, responsible for the training and deployment of 500,000 National Guardsmen and reserve service members. Lieutenant General Honor&#233; also led the Joint Task Force Katrina, following the hurricane's destruction of the Gulf Coast in 2005, where he commanded all active-duty troops from all military branches dedicated to the storm recovery operations. 
   Mr. Speaker, my home district in Houston has been pleased to welcome with open arms well over 100,000 survivors fleeing the storm, including a reported 21,000 children. I spent countless hours after this immense tragedy with the men, women, and children who fell victim to this catastrophic storm; I witnessed first hand the terror and despair of children separated from their 
   parents, men and women who had lost their entire livelihoods, and families who had seen homes full of memories and treasures destroyed in flood waters. I represent thousands of the Katrina evacuees who continue to reside in Houston, I consider their plight and hardship a personal one with which I am intimately familiar, and I am proud of my community's response to this tragedy. 
   In the hours, days, weeks, and months after the Katrina struck the gulf coast, the actions of Lt. General Honor&#233; and those like him were a lifeline for thousands of displaced, frightened, and imperiled residents. His bravery was so often the difference between life and death, or between hope and despair. Those of us who were on the ground in those days and weeks following the storm know just how valuable his actions were, just how vital his leadership was, and just how much the region needed many more leaders like him. 
   I would like to commend Lieutenant General Honor&#233; for his 37 years of service on behalf of the United States. Lieutenant General Honor&#233; has proven his dedication and commitment to the Army and his leadership in post-Katrina recovery effort. I recognize his loyalty as a soldier, commander, and leader and for displaying throughout his distinguished military service the highest levels of leadership, professional competence, integrity, courage. Many of those who survived this storm did so only because of the bravery, selflessness, and immense leadership of Lt. General Honor&#233; and other heroes like him. 
   Over two years have passed since Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, and we continue to mourn the at least 1,836 innocent victims of the storm. We also continue to address the difficult issues raised by the storm, including the rebuilding of affordable housing in the area, and the restoration of local education systems. As a proud Houstonian, a firsthand witness to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina, and a believer in the power of the American people, as demonstrated by Lt. General Honor&#233;, I strongly urge my colleagues to remember those who perished, honor those who found such bravery within themselves, and to continue to work to provide for the still-suffering victims of the storm. 
   In a recent media interview, Lt. General Honor&#233; spoke of what he hoped his legacy would be. He spoke of an effort to guide civilian America, encouraging a ``culture of preparedness'' in the spirit of his own cold-war upbringing. He stated that despite government investment in disaster response mechanisms, civic response remains weak, stating, ``I'm sure you and your wife have a plan to meet at Uncle Joe's house, but does your plan include asking Mrs. Smith next door if she needs a ride?'' This is a vital, and too often overlooked, component of disaster planning. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would again like to voice my support for H.R. 944, and finally give back something to a man that has already given so much to his country.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING UNITED STATES ARMY SPECIALIST MONICA L. BROWN -- (House of Representatives - March 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to introduce legislation with my colleague, Ron Paul of Texas, that honors the sacrifice and courage of a young Army soldier. This happens to be Women's History Month, and this happens to be in honor of the heroic deeds of U.S. Army Specialist, Monica L. Brown. 
   I believe this legislation is especially pertinent, given that March is Women's History Month. Specialist Brown is the first woman in Afghanistan, and only the second female soldier since World War II, to receive the Silver Star, the Nation's third highest medal for valor. This soldier from Lake Jackson, Texas is only 19 years old. 
   On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the HUMVEES. When Specialist Brown saw fellow soldiers were injured, she grabbed her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as insurgents opened fire, without regard to herself. 
   All five wounded soldiers from her platoon scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving fire. 
   The Pentagon says that they don't send women to the front lines, but in Afghanistan and in Iraq there are no front lines. 
   She happens to be only the second woman to receive the Silver Star since World War II. We honor her with this resolution, H. Con. Res. 320. 
   I ask my colleagues to join me in this resolution.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce legislation that honors the sacrifice and courage of a young Army soldier. My colleague and fellow Texan, Representative RON PAUL seeks to recognize the heroic deeds of U.S. Army Specialist Monica L. Brown. 
   I believe this legislation is especially pertinent given that March is Women's History Month. Spec. Brown is the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the nation's third-highest medal for valor. This solider from Lake Jackson, Texas is only 19 years old. 
   On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the Humvees. When Spec. Brown saw her fellow soldiers were injured, she grabbed her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as insurgents opened fire. All five wounded soldiers from her platoon scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving incoming fire. 
   The Pentagon's official policy is to prohibit women from serving in front-line combat roles in the infantry, armor or artillery, but the nature of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with no real front lines, has seen women soldiers take part in close-quarters combat more than previous conflicts. 
   According to the Army four Army nurses in World War II were the first women to receive the Silver Star, though three nurses serving in World War I were awarded the medal posthumously in 2007. Sgt. Leigh Ann Hester, of Nashville, Tenn., was the first to receive the Silver Star in 2005 along with two fellow male soldiers for her gallantry during an insurgent ambush on a convoy in Iraq. 
   The Army has stated that Spec. Brown's ``bravery, unselfish actions and medical aid rendered under fire saved the lives of her comrades and represents the finest traditions of heroism in combat.'' 
   This legislation is not about condoning the wars in Afghanistan or in Iraq. This legislation is about us supporting and honoring our troops. It is about this Nation's children fighting for the rights of all of us in places we do not dare to go, under environments we cannot fully appreciate from this comfortable position. 
   Spec. Brown reminds us that our youth are fighting in this war, our mothers and daughters are fighting in this war, and they deserve to be recognized for their achievements. However, we not only recognize the sacrifice and courage of Spec. Brown, of even just the brave acts of her fellow soldiers, marines, and airmen. We must also recognize the families of our military. Spec. Brown's grandmother said she was the proudest Grandmother in all of Lake Jackson, Texas, when she learned of her granddaughter's heroism. We should all be as proud of our young men and women as Spec. Brown's grandmother. In being proud of them, we are not condoning the Administration, we are recognizing their efforts and their belief in what they have been tasked to do. 
   We sit in these chambers and discuss the idea of war, and the economic costs to the Nation. However, our men and women in Afghanistan and Iraq are dealing with the realities of war everyday. 
   I am proud of Specialist Monica L. Brown, Texas is proud of Monica L. Brown, and this country should be proud of Monica L. Brown. She thought first of her fellow soldiers and not of the harm that may come her way. 
   Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join Representative RON PAUL and myself in recognizing a true hero, a solider, a daughter of Texas, with this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH -- (House of Representatives - March 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in honor of women's history month, and to pay tribute to the countless mothers and grandmothers, sisters and daughters, friends and neighbors that are active across our communities, cities, and our Nation. Women who inspire us, who are the conscience of our communities, and, most of all, women who are the unsung heroes of our shared historical past. 
   In the early days of our great Nation, women were relegated to second-class status. Women were considered sub-sets of their husbands, and after marriage they did not have the right to own property, maintain their wages, or sign a contract, much less vote. It was expected that women be obedient wives, never to hold a thought or opinion independent of their husbands. It was considered improper for women to travel alone or to speak in public. 
   The fight for women's suffrage was formally begun in 1848, and, in 1919, after years of petitioning, picketing, and protest parades, the Nineteenth Amendment was passed by both houses of Congress and in 1920 it became ratified under the presidency of Woodrow Wilson. 
   However, the right to vote did not give women equal rights, and subsequent decades saw an ongoing struggle for equality. A major success came in with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, also known as the Patsy T. Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, in honor of its principal author. This law, enacted on June 23, 1972, states ``No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.'' 
   Title XI, introduced by Congresswoman Patsy Mink (also notable as the first Asian American woman elected to Congress), has opened the doors to countless educational activities, perhaps most prominently high school and collegiate athletics, to women. Congresswoman Mink's legacy lives on as, each year, hundreds of women across the Nation participate in NCAA athletics, learn teamwork and perseverance, earn scholarships enabling them to study at college, and enjoy equal footing with men in the academic arena. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am proud to pay tribute to the women, local heroes, of my district. Women like Ramona Tolliver, long time Fifth Ward resident, former Precinct Chair, founding board 
   member of Fifth Ward Community Redevelopment Corporation, member of Our Mother of Mercy Catholic Church, and member of the Metropolitan Organization member, who is still actively advocating for her community. Women like Nellie Joyce Punch, long time Fifth Ward resident, retired educator at Phyllis Wheatley High School, former Precinct Chair, founding board member of Fifth Ward Community Redevelopment Corporation, member of Methodist Church, also still actively working on behalf of her community. Both Ms. Tolliver and Ms. Punch are active in Houston's Fifth Ward, where they act as the conscience for the community, calling for change and actively working to better our city. 
   Women like Dr. Charlesetta Deason, principal of Houston's DeBakey High School for Health Professions. Dr. Deason helms a school that offers students interested in science and health careers an alternative to the traditional high school experience, located in the renowned Texas Medical Center and boasting an ethnically diverse faculty and an excellent introductory study of medicine. 
   Or women like Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia, the first Hispanic and first woman to be elected in her own right to the office. Commissioner Garcia is active in the Houston community, and she has served on more than 25 community boards and commissions, including the San Jacinto Girl Scouts, the Houston Hispanic Forum, the American Leadership Forum, the Texas Southern University Foundation and the Institute of Hispanic Culture. 
   As a Nation, we have come a long way toward recognizing the important role women play, not only in our local communities, but in our Nation as a whole. Since 1917, when Representative Jeannette Rankin of Montana became the first woman to serve in Congress, 243 more women have served as U.S. Representatives or Senators. In 1968, Shirley Chisholm became the first African American woman elected to Congress; I am now proud to be one of 13 African American women serving in this body. 
   In addition, we are now, for the first time, under the leadership of a woman Speaker of the House. Speaker PELOSI has 
   led this Democratic Congress in a New Direction, listening to the will of the American people, as it was clearly expressed last November. We are also currently in the midst of a groundbreaking Presidential campaign, which, for the first time, sees a woman seriously vying for the nomination of one of the two major political parties. 
   Mr. Speaker, the great tragedy of women's history is that, many times, the history of women is not written down. Too often, throughout the course of history, the contributions of women have gone unrecorded, unheralded, and are now forgotten. And so, Madam Speaker, during Women's History Month, we do not stand here only to remember the Eleanor Roosevelts, Harriet Tubmans, Barbara Jordans, and Rosa Parks, women who are celebrated in our schools and history books, but also the millions of female unsung heroes who built this Nation, and who made it truly great. 
   I would like to pay special tribute to women, mothers, and grandmothers across the country. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the growing phenomenon of grandparents raising children. As of 1996, 4 million children were being raised by their grandparents, and statistics published the following year indicated that over one-tenth of all grandparents provided the primary care for their grandchildren for at least six months and typically much longer. These numbers continue to grow, and these grandparents, generally ineligible for financial or social support, often suffer greatly to provide a safe and loving home for these children. 
   In addition, Mr. Speaker, we pay tribute to the brave women who serve proudly in our Nation's military. We have come a long way since the first American woman soldier, Deborah Sampson of Massachusetts, who enlisted as a Continental Army soldier under the name of ``Robert Shurtlief.'' Women served with distinction in World War II: 350,000 American women served during World War II, and 16 were killed in action. In total, they gained over 1,500 medals, citations and commendations. In December 1989, CPT Linda L. Bray, 29, became the first woman 
   to command American soldiers in battle, during the invasion of Panama. 
   The war in Iraq marks the first time in American history that a substantial number of the combat wounded are women. 350,000 women are serving in the U.S. military--almost 15 percent of active duty personnel, and one in every seven troops in Iraq is a woman. Women play a role in nearly all types of military operation, and they have time and time again demonstrated extreme bravery, courage, and patriotism. 
   I would particularly like to honor one our heroic daughters: Army SPC Monica L. Brown. Brown is the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the Nation's third-highest medal for valor. Army SPC Monica Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of the Humvees. After the explosion, in which five soldiers in her unit were wounded, Brown ran through insurgent gunfire and used her body to shield wounded comrades as mortars fell less than 100 yards away. Army Specialist Brown, a native Texan, represents the best of our Nation's fighting men and women, and she clearly demonstrates that the admirable qualities of patriotism, valor, and courage know no gender. 
   Mr. Speaker, Women's History Month is an opportunity for all Americans to reflect on the women who have built, strengthened, and maintained this great Nation. Women who have often gone unrecognized, unheralded, and unlauded for their great achievements, sacrifices, and contributions. I ask my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to the women in their communities, in their families, and in their lives.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5715, ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1107, the Rule providing for consideration of H.R. 5715, ``Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008.'' 
   Every generation sets out to improve upon the previous generation. We teach our children that if they focus, are responsible, and work hard they can be anything. Yet we have provided a false truth for the majority of our children. Rising tuitions in higher education even at our community colleges are keeping a lot of our youth from attending college. For those that are able to attend, they are burdened by extensive loans just to buy books, attend class, and maintain housing. 
   Families are sending their children to school, trying to qualify for parent loans and wondering how they are going to make the payments when they are struggling to pay their mortgage and facing their own issues with possible unemployment. 
   In my home State of Texas, families are struggling to assist children with their education while they face an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent across the State. As of the end of last year, Texas was ranked as having the 20th highest unemployment rate (out of the 50 States). And we are not alone as States grapple with unemployment and a falling housing market. 
   H.R. 5715, ``Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act,'' provides much needed support to our families in a time when they most need it by specifically addressing the needs of parents, students, and even lenders. The Student Loans Act would: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2634, JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1103--Rule providing for consideration of H.R. 2634--Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2007. I also strongly support the underlying legislation, H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation, which I am proud to join over 100 of my colleagues in cosponsoring. I would like to thank my colleague, Congresswoman WATERS, for introducing this bill, as well as the Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman FRANK, for his leadership on this important issue. 
   This rule allows for the consideration of four amendments. I am proud to support the Manager's Amendment, introduced by Congressman FRANK, which adds additional conditions to the eligibility criteria for debt relief, including complying with minimum standards for eliminating human trafficking, cooperating with American efforts to stop illegal immigration, and being committed to free and fair elections. 
   I also support the amendment offered by my colleague Congressman HASTINGS of Florida. This amendment adds a Sense of Congress stating that, due to the current humanitarian and political instability in Haiti, including food shortages and political turmoil, the Secretary of the Treasury should use his influence to expedite the complete and immediate cancellation of Haiti's debts to all international financial institutions, or if such debt cancellation cannot be provided, to urge the institutions to immediately suspend the requirement that Haiti make further debt service payments on debts owed to the institutions. After deadly food riots last week in Port-au-Prince, which resulted in the death of a Nigerian U.N. peacekeeper, I believe that this amendment is both crucial and timely. 
   I also support the amendment introduced by my colleague Mr. WEINER. This amendment modifies the qualification for ``eligible low-income country'' to include those countries that are eligible for both International Development Association loans and World Bank loans. 
   Countries throughout the world suffer from the heavy burden of debt. The inability of nations to escape from these financial commitments has profound impacts on any attempts they make at poverty reduction, health care, economic development, and sustainable growth. The Highly Indebted Poor Countries, HIPCs, the majority of which are located in Africa, are particularly 
   crippled by debt. Nearly three years ago, we saw an outpouring of support for debt relief as G8 leaders met in Gleneagles, Scotland, to pursue a policy of poverty reduction. While some positive progress has been made since that meeting, it is absolutely undeniable that this is an issued on which a great deal remains to be done. 
   Today, we have an opportunity to take a positive and concrete step toward ending global poverty by helping needy and deserving low-income countries. The Jubilee Act expands existing debt relief programs for the world's poorest countries, and it includes measures to ensure that the benefits of debt relief are not eroded by future abusive lending. 
   Debt relief has, in the past, proved an effective tool to reduce poverty in some of the world's poorest countries. Debt relief initiatives passed in 1999 and 2005 are benefiting more than two dozen countries in Africa and Latin America. Uganda is using the $57.9 million it has saved from debt cancellation on primary education, to ensure a future for its children, as well as much needed improvements in malaria control, health care, and infrastructure. Zambia is using its savings of $23.8 million on agricultural projects, and to eliminate fees for health care in rural areas. 
   Debt cancellation has enabled programs in Uganda and Zambia to directly help the people of these nations. However, there are many impoverished and deserving countries that do not currently benefit from debt relief. The International Monetary Fund, IMF, and the World Bank continue to place restrictive conditions on debt cancellation, calling for policies requiring the privatization of essential services and the liberalization of trade in sensitive sectors in exchange for debt cancellation. These conditions are currently holding up desperately needed debt relief in several eligible countries, including Haiti, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Liberia. 
   Madam Speaker, the legislation we are considering today will not only bring the benefits of debt cancellation to more countries than ever before, it will also ensure that these benefits are felt by all strata of society. This bill would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate an agreement with the IMF and World Bank, as well as other bilateral and multilateral creditors, to make up to 25 additional low-income countries eligible for complete debt cancellation. Governments of these countries will be required to allocate the money saved through debt cancellation to poverty reduction programs, such as initiatives to improve economic infrastructure, basic education, nutrition, health services, and programs to redress environmental degradation. 
   This legislation does not remove all conditions from debt relief programs. Countries still must demonstrate transparent and effective budget and financial management systems, and they can be excluded from debt relief if they do not. In addition, countries committing massive violations of human rights are not eligible, nor are countries that support international terrorism, have excessive levels of military expenditures, or fail to cooperate on international narcotics control. The Jubilee Act encourages the developing of 
   responsible financing standards, and assures financial transparency and accountability. 
   Finally, but perhaps most importantly, the Jubilee Act calls for the development of a responsible financing framework for the future. Debt forgiveness is a good short-term solution, but to be truly effective we must find a way to fix the broken system of international lending. Of particular concern to me has been the proliferation of vulture funds, which, like their avian namesake, seek to make a profit off of already weakened prey. 
   Madam Speaker, vulture funds purchase the debt of countries (or companies) in financial distress. They then hold out for the full value of the debt, plus any interest, which they pursue through litigation, much of which takes place in U.S. courts. The inability of nations to escape from these financial commitments has profound impacts on any attempts they make at poverty reduction, health care, economic development, and sustainable growth. The Highly Indebted Poor Countries, HIPCs, the majority of which are located in Africa, are particularly crippled by debt. Though these countries may not appear to be the most profitable prey for vulture funds, which in theory prefer to purchase debt that a country has, or may in the future develop, the ability to pay, according to reports there are numerous lawsuits currently pending against HIPC countries. 
   Vulture funds, together with other forms of irresponsible lending, undermine international efforts to provide much needed debt relief to the world's most indebted poor countries. The Jubilee Act directs the Secretary of the Treasury to develop and promote policies to prevent bilateral, multilateral, and private creditors from eroding the gains of debt relief through irresponsible or exploitive lending. I am particularly pleased that this legislation takes this important step toward fixing broken systems of international lending. 
   Madam Speaker, if we are serious about meeting the Millennium Development Goals, we must take concrete steps toward reducing poverty. Debt cancellation is a proven way to do this. This legislation has the support of numerous organizations doing excellent work around the world, including the AFL-CIO, American Jewish World Service, Church World Service, DATA--Debt AIDS Trade Africa--Jubilee USA Network, the ONE Campaign, Oxfam America, and RESULTS. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this rule, and the underlying legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 5715, ``Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008'', introduced by Representative GEORGE MILLER of California. I want to thank the Committee on Education and Labor for its efforts in this important area. 
   Every generation sets out to improve upon the previous generation. We teach our children that if they focus, are responsible, and work hard they can be anything. Yet we have provided a false truth for the majority of our children. Rising tuitions in higher education even at our community colleges are keeping a lot of our youth from attending college. For those that are able to attend, they are burdened by extensive loans just to buy books, attend class, and maintain housing. 
   Families are sending their children to school, trying to qualify for parent loans and wondering how they are going to make the payments when they are struggling to pay their mortgage and facing their own issues with possible unemployment. 
   In my home state of Texas, families are struggling to assist children with their education while they face an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent across the state. As of the end of last year, Texas was ranked as having the 20th highest unemployment rate (out of the 50 states). And we are not alone as states grabble with unemployment and a falling housing market. 
   H.R. 5715, Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act, provides much needed support to our families in a time when they most need it by specifically addressing the needs of parents, students, and even lenders. The Student loans Act would: Increase unsubsidized loan limits for students--This bill will increase unsubsidized loan limits by $2,000 for each year of undergraduate and graduate school. It also increases the aggregate loan limits to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and $57,500 for independent undergraduate students. 
   Delayed repayment of parent PLUS loans--Currently PLUS loan borrowers--parents--go into repayment 60 days after disbursement of the loan. This bill would give families an option of not entering repayment for up to 6-months after a student leaves school. 
   PLUS loan eligibility for struggling home-owners--Under current law, parents with an adverse credit history are ineligible to receive a parent PLUS loan, except under extenuating circumstances. In light of the current housing market, the bill temporarily qualifies up to 180 day delinquency on home mortgages as an extenuating circumstance, therefore making it more possible for parents struggling with the current housing market to secure loans for their children. 
   Lender of Last Resort flexibility--The bill makes clear in statute that the Secretary of Education has the mandatory authority to advance Federal funds to Guaranty Agencies in the case that they do not have sufficient capital. Further, the bill allows a Guaranty Agency to designate a school (rather than an individual student) as a ``lender of last resort school,'' in accordance with guidelines set by the Secretary. 
   Authority for the Secretary of Education to purchase FFEL loan assets--The bill gives the Secretary the temporary authority, upon a determination that there is inadequate availability to meet demand for loans, to purchase loans from FFEL lenders. Such purchases could only be made in the case they are revenue-neutral or beneficial to the Federal Government. 
   Federal Institutions' participation--The bill includes a Sense of the Congress that the Federal Financial Institutions and entities (including the Federal Financing Bank, the Federal Home Loan Banks, and the Federal Reserve) should consider using, in consultation with the Secretaries of Education and the Treasury, available authorities, if needed, to assist in ensuring continued student loan access. 
   CONCLUSION 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for H.R. 5715, Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act. Let's support education by allowing for greater flexibility, eligibility, and participation for students and their families  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, this is a moving moment to come to the floor of the House. And I was moved by the words of our Speaker, quoting the Pope and saying that we must have courage. Then, of course, the ranking member from Alabama got up and said, Chairman Frank, that there were those who came back and said, I have seen it with my own eyes. 
   And this is what this bill is about. It is about people understanding that extending the opportunity to teach individuals the ability to fish, to reduce the debt, gives them a lifelong opportunity of survival. 
   Let me thank Chairman Frank, Congresswoman Waters and the ranking member of the full committee, my subcommittee chair, Mr. Payne, and Ms. Lee for their stick-to-itiveness on a very important concept, reduce the debt on the continent of Africa, and you give the opportunity to children and others to survive. 
   This is not a give-away. It is an effective tool to reduce poverty in some of the world's poorest countries. I've had the privilege and honor of representing this nation in my visits to place like Zambia, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Ghana in those early days, Nigeria, Angola and places where you might not imagine the poverty, Lesotho. Debt relief initiatives passed in 1999 and 2005 are benefiting more than two dozen countries in Africa and Latin America, just to the south of us. 
   Uganda is using the $57.9 million it has saved from debt cancellation on primary education to ensure a future for its children as well as much-needed improvements in malaria control, health care and infrastructure. 
   Many of us take for granted our public school system. But are you aware that children stay out of school because they don't have the fees, they don't have the money for books, and they don't have the money for clothing? In most African countries, and maybe in Latin American countries, school is not free. There is no concept of ``public school.'' Zambia, one of the poorest nations, is using its savings of $23.8 million on agricultural projects and to eliminate fees for health care in rural areas. Debt cancellations enable programs in Uganda and Zambia to directly help the people. 
   This is the face of America and the face of our faith, and it is saying that we care for the least of those. We are, in fact, a good Samaritan. 
   And so today, as we stand here, this is a time of jubilee, for this legislation not only reduces or excuses debt, but it also helps to restructure and finance new opportunities. This Act calls for the development of a responsible financing prime rate for the future. Debt forgiveness is a good short-term solution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. Debt forgiveness is a good short-term solution, but to be truly effective, we must find a way to fix the broken system of international lending. 
   I am very grateful that our Financial Services Committee has been one of the most proactive in time of need. They are facing the economic crisis of Americans. They have not forgotten you. They are facing the economic crisis around the world. They are restructuring and looking at how we can unify our financial system here. We are, in fact, the keepers of our brothers and sisters as I started out by saying. We must have the courage that has been dictated to us and said to us today by the Pope who is visiting America. And it is good for our colleagues, who may  doubt this legislation, to go and see it with their own eyes. Once they do so, they will understand that this is absolutely the right direction. And might I just thank the AFL-CIO, the American Jewish World Service, the Church World Service, the DATA organization and others for their support. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation. I am proud to join over 100 of my colleagues in cosponsoring this timely legislation. I would like to thank my colleague, Congresswoman WATERS, for introducing this bill, as well as the Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Congressman FRANK, for his leadership on this important issue. 
   Countries throughout the world suffer from the heavy burden of debt. The inability of nations to escape from these financial commitments has profound impacts on any attempts they make at poverty reduction, health care, economic development, and sustainable growth. The Highly Indebted Poor Countries, HIPCs, the majority of which are located in Africa, are particularly crippled by debt. Nearly three years ago, we saw an outpouring of support for debt relief as G8 leaders met in Gleneagles, Scotland, to pursue a policy of poverty reduction. While some positive progress has been made since that meeting, it is absolutely undeniable that this is an issue on which a great deal remains to be done. 
   Today, we have an opportunity to take a positive and concrete step toward ending global poverty by helping needy and deserving low-income countries. The Jubilee Act expands existing debt relief programs for the world's poorest countries, and it includes measures to ensure that the benefits of debt relief are not eroded by future abusive lending. 
   Debt relief has, in the past, proved an effective tool to reduce poverty in some of the world's poorest countries. Debt relief initiatives passed in 1999 and 2005 are benefiting more than two dozen countries in Africa and Latin America. Uganda is using the $57.9 million it has saved from debt cancellation on primary education, to ensure a future for its children, as well as much needed improvements in malaria control, healthcare, and infrastructure. Zambia is using its savings of $23.8 million on agricultural projects, and to eliminate fees for healthcare in rural areas. 
   Debt cancellation has enabled programs in Uganda and Zambia to directly help the people of these nations. However, there are many impoverished and deserving countries that do not currently benefit from debt relief. The International Monetary Fund, IMF, and the World Bank continue to place restrictive conditions on debt cancellation, calling for policies requiring the privatization of essential services and the liberalization of trade in sensitive sectors in exchange for debt cancellation. These conditions are currently holding up desperately needed debt relief in several eligible countries, including Haiti, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Liberia. 
   Mr. Chairman, the legislation we are considering today will not only bring the benefits of debt cancellation to more countries than ever before, it will also ensure that these benefits are felt by all strata of society. This bill would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate an agreement with the IMF and World Bank, as well as other bilateral and multilateral creditors, to make up to 25 additional low-income countries eligible for complete debt cancellation. Governments of these countries will be required to allocate the money saved through debt cancellation to poverty reduction programs, such as initiatives to improve economic infrastructure, basic education, nutrition, health services, and programs to redress environmental degradation. 
   This legislation does not remove all conditions from debt relief programs. Countries still must demonstrate transparent and effective budget and financial management systems, and they can be excluded from debt relief if they do not. In addition, countries committing massive violations of human rights are not eligible, nor are countries that support international terrorism, have excessive levels of military expenditures, or fail to cooperate on international narcotics control. The Jubilee Act encourages the developing of responsible financing standards, and assures financial transparency and accountability. 
   Finally, but perhaps most importantly, the Jubilee Act calls for the development of a responsible financing framework for the future. Debt forgiveness is a good short-term solution, but to be truly effective we must find a way to fix the broken system of international lending. Of particular concern to me has been the proliferation of vulture funds, which, like their avian namesake, seek to make a profit off of already weakened prey. 
   Mr. Chairman, vulture funds purchase the debt of countries (or companies) in financial distress. They then hold out for the full value of the debt, plus any interest, which they pursue through litigation, much of which takes place in U.S. courts. The inability of nations to escape from these financial commitments has profound impacts on any attempts they make at poverty reduction, health care, economic development, and sustainable growth. The Highly Indebted Poor Countries, HIPCs, the majority of which are located in Africa, are particularly crippled by debt. Though these countries may not appear to be the most profitable prey for vulture funds, which in theory prefer to purchase debt that a country has, or may in the future develop, the ability to pay, according to reports there are numerous lawsuits currently pending against HIPC countries. 
   Vulture funds, together with other forms of irresponsible lending, undermine international efforts to provide much needed debt relief to the world's most indebted poor countries. The Jubilee Act directs the Secretary of the Treasury to develop and promote policies to prevent bilateral, multilateral, and private creditors from eroding the gains of debt relief through irresponsible or exploitive lending. I am particularly pleased that this legislation takes this important step toward fixing broken systems of international lending. 
   I am proud to support the Manager's Amendment to this legislation, introduced by Congressman FRANK, which adds additional conditions to the eligibility criteria for debt relief, including complying with minimum standards for eliminating human trafficking, cooperating with American efforts to stop illegal immigration, and being committed to free and fair elections. 
   I also support the amendment offered by my colleague Congressman HASTINGS of Florida. This amendment adds a Sense of Congress stating that, due to the current humanitarian and political instability in Haiti, including food shortages and political turmoil, the Secretary of the Treasury should use his influence to expedite the complete and immediate cancellation of Haiti's debts to all international financial institutions, or if such debt cancellation cannot be provided, to urge the institutions to immediately suspend the requirement that Haiti make further debt service payments on debts owed to the institutions. After deadly food riots last week in Port-au-Prince, which resulted in the death of a Nigerian UN peacekeeper, I believe that this amendment is both crucial and timely. 
   I also support the amendment introduced by my colleague Mr. WEINER. This amendment modifies the qualification for ``eligible low-income country'' to include those countries that are eligible for both International Development Association loans and World Bank loans. 
   Mr. Chairman, if we are serious about meeting the Millennium Development Goals, we must take concrete steps toward reducing poverty. Debt cancellation is a proven way to do this. This legislation has the support of numerous organizations doing excellent work around the world, including the AFL-CIO, American Jewish World Service, Church World Service, DATA, Debt AIDS Trade Africa, Jubilee USA Network, the ONE Campaign, Oxfam America, and RESULTS. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman and member of the Rules Committee, Mr. Hastings. I acknowledge, again, the members of the Financial Services Committee and Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS. 
   I salute the gentleman for this forthright and vital acknowledgment and sense of Congress in this bill. 
   Mr. Chairman, people are starving in Haiti. Haitians are starving, they are in the streets. They are crying out for relief. As was said earlier, this is the poorest country in the western hemisphere. President Preval has made a commitment to this Nation, and he has worked hard on political stability. 
   We have seen incarcerated persons who are held as political prisoners be released. But I think it is crucial that we join in a unified voice today to acknowledge that we stand against the starvation and the financial crisis that is in Haiti. 
   This is an important statement to cancel the debt to all international financial institutions and also such debt cancellation cannot be provided, to urge the institutions to immediately suspend the requirement. 
   I thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding to me, and I join them also on the request for TPS. I support the Hastings amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NOW IS THE TIME TO DECLARE A MILITARY VICTORY IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - September 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I hold in my hand the United States Government Accountability report, ``Securing, Stabilizing and Rebuilding Iraq.'' The Iraqi Government has not met most legislative security and economic benchmarks. 
   The President and Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense made a surprise visit to Anbar Province in Iraq. Out of their visit, I might imagine they would hope to have a counteroffensive against a number of hearings that the majority will be holding on the question of are we safer today than we were before the Iraq war. This report is both striking and provoking, provoking Americans to realize that the policy in Iraq has failed. 
   It is time now to declare a military success, a military victory. Our soldiers have done their job. They have created an opportunity for a democratic government in Iraq. But, unfortunately, the job that needs to be done by the Iraqi Government has not been done. There are no battalions that are ready to go on the ground. 
   So I will say to the administration, a surge will not work. Staying the course will not work. I ask that the troops be redeployed and a new direction be taken in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL BLACK HIV/AIDS AWARENESS DAY -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues, Congresswoman BARBARA LEE, Dr. CHRISTENSEN, Congresswoman Waters, Congressman Towns, Congresswoman Kilpatrick, and many of my other colleagues in support of the goals and ideals of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. 
   It is unbelievable, Madam Speaker, to hear the numbers that are escalating now with HIV/AIDS in the African American community, which accounted for nearly 50 percent of all new  HIV infections despite representing only about 12.3 percent of the population. 
   The CDC estimates that in 2005, African American women accounted for over 66 percent of all HIV/AIDS cases among women and were 25 times more likely to be infected than white women. 
   Drastic, drastic, drastic decisions have to be made. We may be able to address this question by educating, but I do believe we must confront the question of testing. In our high schools today we are finding that there are those who are proving to be HIV positive as early as ninth grade and as early as middle school. We have to address this question. I ask my colleagues to wake up and confront this crisis in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL BLACK HIV/AIDS AWARENESS DAY -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 35 supporting the goals and ideals of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness. Established in February 2000, National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness and Information Day, NBHAAD, is an annual observance day that was created to raise awareness among African-Americans about HIV/AIDS and its devastating impact on African-American communities. 
   There is no question that we must continue to mount a massive campaign to support the mission of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, NBHAAD to build the capacity and increase awareness, participation and support for HIV prevention, care and treatment among African-Americans. February 7, 2007 marks the seventh year of this annual event. The day is part of a national mobilization effort to get African-Americans to learn more about the threat posed by the disease, get tested, get treated and make a commitment to fight HIV/AIDS. For this day and everyday forward we must raise our voices to volumes that can be heard across the globe. Unfortunately, for too long we have settled for surviving our tragic losses in silence. But listen to these screaming statistics: 
   According to CDC estimates, at the end of 2005, African-Americans accounted for 44 percent of all individuals living with AIDS--188,000. 
   In 2005, African-Americans accounted for nearly 50 percent of all new HIV infections, despite representing only about 12.3 percent of the population, according to the 2000 Census. 
   In 2005, African-American women represented 66 percent of all new HIV/AIDS cases among women, and were 25 times more likely to be infected than White women. 
   CDC estimates that 73 percent of all children born to HIV infected mothers in 2004 were African-American. 
   With an estimated 38.6 million people worldwide living with HIV at the end of 2005, and more than 25 million people having died of AIDS since 1981, NBHAAD serves to remind everyone that action makes a difference in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Let there be no mistake; we are here to acknowledge that AIDS is a deadly enemy against which we must join all our forces to fight and eliminate. 
   Though I stand here today in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, Americans should be reminded that HIV/AIDS does not discriminate. With an estimated 1,039,000 to 1,185,000 HIV-positive individuals living in the U.S., and approximately 40,000 new infections occurring every year, the U.S., like other nations around the world is deeply affected by HIV/AIDS. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt that AIDS is devastating the African-American community. As of February 2006, African-Americans represented only 13 percent of the U.S. population, but accounted for 40 percent of the 944,306 AIDS cases diagnosed since the start of the epidemic and approximately half, 49 percent of the 42,514 cases diagnosed in 2004 alone. African-Americans also account for half of new HIV/AIDS diagnoses in the 35 States/areas with confidential name-based reporting. 
   The AIDS case rate per 100,000 population among African-American adults/adolescents was nearly 10.2 times that of Whites in 2004. African-Americans accounted for 55 percent of deaths due to HIV in 2002 and their survival time after an AIDS diagnosis is lower on average than it is for other racial/ethnic groups. HIV was the third leading cause of death for African-Americans, ages 25-34, in 2002 compared to the sixth leading cause of death for Whites and Latinos in this age group. 
   African-American women and children have been disproportionately victimized by this deadly disease. African-American women account for the majority of new AIDS cases among women--67 percent in 2004; White women account for 17 percent and Latinas 15 percent. Among African-Americans, African-American women represent more than a third, 36 percent of AIDS cases diagnosed in 2004. Although African-American teens, ages 13-19, represent only 15 percent of U.S. teenagers, they accounted for 66 percent of new AIDS cases reported among teens in 2003. We must continue to forge a tough fight to reverse all of these costly trends. 
   Mr. Speaker, combating this crisis will take a team effort. All of us--researchers, legislators, clergy, community organizers and activists and others--must work tirelessly to find solutions and to help so that our work will bring forth a wealth of wisdom that creates a climate of compassionate care and healing. 
   Let us go forth as warriors, renewed in our commitment to stand in solidarity with everyone who has been affected by HIV and AIDS, and let us be encouraged in our efforts to comfort the afflicted and confront the passiveness of so many who contribute to the spread of this deadly disease; and let us be  emboldened to speak out in our own communities so that silence may no more mask the ringing alarms of rapidly rising infection rates. 
   I hope that our inner human spirits will move us to a place and time where we no longer turn our heads and close our eyes to those communities who need our help the most. We must find the strength to look past our fears and find compassion to create a world where no man, woman or child is confronted with the perils of this current AIDS crisis. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the goal of NBHAAD to motivate African-Americans to get tested and know their HIV status; get educated about the transmission modes of HIV/AIDS; get involved in their local community; and get treated if they are currently living with HIV or are newly diagnosed. 
   Let me take this moment to recognize a major inspiration for NBHAAD, Mr. Louis E. Harris, 1947-2003, who passed away in January 2003 due to complications with bladder cancer. Mr. Harris served as the executive director of Concerned Black Men, Inc. of Philadelphia during NBHAAD's conception. His work and dedication will be missed along with his kind and warm words of encouragement. It is hoped that NBHAAD will continue to build the capacity of community based organizations, CBOs, as well as community stake holders to increase awareness, prevent HIV and get 
   those who need treatment into care. I applaud the efforts of NBHAAD advocates to: 
   1. Increase reporting of accurate up-to-date statistics on the HIV and AIDS epidemic among Blacks by electronic and print media, radio and television stations; 
   2. Increase collaboration and sharing of resources at the national and local levels; 
   3. Increase resources and support including capacity building assistance for health departments, community based organizations and stakeholders serving Black communities; and 
   4. Increase the number of Blacks at high risk for acquiring HIV that receive HIV counseling, testing and other HIV prevention, treatment and care services. 
   Observance of this day provides an opportunity for governments, national AIDS programs, churches, community organizations and individuals to demonstrate the importance of the fight against HIV/AIDS. Though funding for research is an important key to tackling the tragic devastation of HIV/AIDS in our communities, I realize that providing funding for research alone is simply not sufficient to eradicate the high rates of HIV/AIDS cases within the African-American community. We must also provide funding for prevention and education. 
   Billions and billions of private and Federal dollars have been poured into drug research and development to treat and ``manage'' infections, but the complex life cycle and insane mutation rates of HIV strains have made these efforts futile in the fight to remove HIV/AIDS as a global public health threat. Though the drugs we currently have are effective in managing infections and reducing mortality by slowing the progression to AIDS in an individual, they do little to reduce disease prevalence and prevent new infections. 
   A thousand drugs that ``manage'' infection will not suffice. We can make and market drugs until we have 42 million individually tailored treatments, but so long as a quarter of those infected remain detached from the importance of testing, we have no chance of ending or even ``managing'' the pandemic. Currently, the only cure we have for HIV/AIDS is prevention. While we must continue efforts to develop advanced treatment options, it is crucial that those efforts are accompanied by dramatic increases in public health education and prevention measures. 
   During my time in office, I have fully and eagerly supported all legislation that has given increased attention to HIV/AIDS, including the Ryan White CARE Act, which is currently slated to receive about $2.2 billion in funding for FY2007. I have supported legislation to reauthorize funding for community health centers--H.R. 5573, Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006--including the Montrose and Fourth Ward clinics right here in Houston, as well as supported legislation to provide more nurses for the poor urban communities in which many of these centers are located--H.R. 1285, Nursing Relief Act for Disadvantaged Areas. I have also supported and introduced legislation aimed to better educate our children--H.R. 2553, Responsible Education About Life Act in 2006) and eliminate health disparities--H.R. 3561, Healthcare Equality and Accountability Act and the Good Medicine Cultural Competency Act in 2003, H.R. 90. And I will continue to endorse and push for similar legislation. 
   Twenty-five years from now, I hope that we will not be discussing data on prevalence and mortality, but rather how our sustained efforts at elimination have come into fruition. But if we are ever to have that discussion, there are a number of actions that we must take right now. We must continue research on treatments and antiretroviral therapies, as well as pursue a cure. And we absolutely have to ensure that everyone who needs treatment receives it. In order to do this, we have to increase awareness of testing, access to testing, and the accuracy of testing. How can we stop this pandemic if we are unable to track it? 
   We must also increase funding for local health departments and community health clinics, as well as fully fund the Ryan White CARE Act. Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, it is imperative that we work to increase funding for HIV prevention and education, so that our children will be equipped with sufficient and appropriate knowledge of this growing threat within our communities, especially within our Black communities and among Black women. If Blacks are 11 times as likely to acquire infection, then we need to make 11 times the effort to educate. And we need to apply similar efforts in every community until HIV/AIDS becomes a memory. If not, our friends and family will be memories instead. 
   I would like to take a moment to applaud the enormous efforts of community volunteers from churches and other organizations which have done commendable work across our Nation. I think everyone can learn something from their selflessness and their will to serve their communities. We need more people to follow their lead. We do not have time for excuses or hesitation. We have the passion and dedication, and we are securing more and more resources. It is up to us to get the resources where they are needed. I know a lot of people don't want to take things seriously until it hits home; until a brother or a sister or a son or a daughter falls victim to our blithe and ignorance. We cannot afford nor do we want to bear that cost; however, if we continue to sit by and wait for the next person to act, we may all have brothers and sisters and sons and daughters with HIV/AIDS. 
   We need to be proactive and act with unprecedented urgency. Now is not the time to get comfortable. If you feel like you're getting comfortable, just remember that there is a face to every number, to every statistic. This is not a hypothetical or theoretical or metaphysical phenomenon. There are no imaginary numbers in this equation; only real people. And I am confident that we can protect and save real people with increased efforts. 
   I will continue work tirelessly to keep the spotlight on this dark disease that is devastating many people in the African-American community, United States and around the world. My hope is that all of our efforts will lead to the elimination of HIV and AIDS not just from the African-American community but from every community. I urge my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 35 supporting the goals of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SERGEANT HENRY YBARRA III POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a great American and war hero of our country by naming the Post Office at 3903 South Congress Avenue in Austin, Texas in his honor. Born and raised in South Austin, Army SGT Henry Ybarra III was the first soldier from the capitol of my home state--Austin, Texas--to be killed in Iraq. Sergeant Ybarra graduated from Johnson High School and attended San Jose Catholic Church. He is survived by his wife, Lilian, and their three children, Alyssa, 16, Gabreielle, 14, and Henry Ybarra IV, 4. 
   Army SGT Henry Ybarra III died when he was just 32 years of age on September 11, 2003 in Balad, Iraq. Ironically it was when his father was observing a moment of silence for the September 11th victims that he received a phone call with the grave news that his own son was dead. Readiness, quick thinking, leadership and dedication are some of the traits that America's leaders possess today and traits that Sergeant Ybarra displayed the day that he was killed. Army SGT Henry Ybarra III died under combat conditions when the tire on a 10-ton military cargo truck exploded as he tried to change it. Dedication and excellent service to his country was not new to Army SGT Henry Ybarra and during his military career he earned the Army Achievement Medal, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Medal, Armed Forces Service Medal, National Defense Medal, NCO Professional Development Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon and Basic Marksmanship Badge. 
   As Americans will never forget the attack on our Nation on September 11, 2001, so we must never forget those who are fighting the war in Iraq and serving our country. Sergeant Ybarra's memory must live on. He is an example of the thousands of dedicated soldiers who have selflessly given their lives to protect the  freedoms of America and aid those in need. By honoring him, we honor the soldiers before him and the soldiers that are currently deployed in Iraq. Too many times we hear about the ugliness this war brings and as the death toll rises and we continue to stay in Iraq, we must not forget the names and faces of the fallen. I thank Rep. DOGGETT and urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 577, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3903 South Congress Avenue in Austin, TX, as the ``Sergeant Henry Ybarra III Post Office Building.'' We must put a face and a name to honor the fallen in Iraq so that his memory will never be forgotten. Help me to honor one of our Nation's finest and bravest by commemorating Sergeant Ybarra and naming a post office in Austin, Texas after him.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the chairman of the full committee for his leadership and the consistency of the methodical pathway to securing America. That is what we are doing here today. I want to acknowledge the ranking member of the committee and my ranking member, Mr. Lungren of California, because we have worked together as a committee to focus on a number of issues, including chemical security and an overview of infrastructure protection and now this legislation.     
   I also think it is important to note that we have committed, as the chairman has indicated, that we will look at the security measures needed for the trucking industry. 
   But we should get a sense of the roadmap that is being created here on the floor today. And as we look at the bills that we have discussed, each one of them are building blocks toward the response to the 9/11 families, who, day after day after 9/11 told this Congress to get its act together, starting first, of course, with the bill of Congresswoman Clarke that emphasizes that if we have a watch list, that watch list should be a watch list that is both accurate and secure, and that hard working Americans have to have their civil liberties protected, so if they are on the list by mistake we must avoid or find a process of appeal for the mistakes that are being made. 
   Then, of course, I think it is noteworthy, as the chairman brought forward his bill on biometric, that we found incidences in Chicago where these cards that are being used by airport employees were fraudulently produced and large numbers of them found, a cache of them found in the hands of employees, so that people who are not credentialed can get on the airport surface because of this fraudulence. So this biometric study is extremely important. 
   Having just come back from Boston Logan Airport, we also note that the bill by Congresswoman Lowey is very important, so that we are on our toes about ensuring that those who are working at these airports are not tipped off about testing or having them go through security, so that the four corners of airports are secure. 
   Now we come full circle, and this legislation, H. Res. 1150, goes back again to the heart of the purpose of the 9/11 Commission. It was a holistic approach to security, for we have seen the tragedy of being lax on airport security. 
   And I might imagine that those of you who are visiting the United States Congress who might have taken airplanes have gone through security, and it might have been a crowded line. But you are adhering to the rules because you know that we are working together to secure the homeland. 
   But the homeland is more than just aviation. It is also rail. And this legislation is part of the approach that the Homeland Security Committee is taking, and seriously taking, as its responsibilities of oversight. 
   Each weekday, 11,300,000 passengers depend on our Nation's mass transit  lines as a means of transportation. Our Nation's mass transit lines serve as a target for terrorist attacks, as evidenced by the March 11, 2004, attack on the Madrid, Spain, mass transit system; the July 7, 2005, attack on the London, England, mass transit system; and the July 11, 2006, attack on the Mumbai, India, mass transit system. 
   These systems are vulnerable, and the TSA Administration through the development of its National Explosive Detection Canine Team Program furthered its ability to provide security against terrorist attacks on the Nation's transportation systems by preventing and protecting our explosive threats. 
   However, it is important for the administration and the Transportation Security Administration to be reminded of the Nation's rail and mass transit lines, that they should remain secure from terrorist attack, as they are critical in the functioning of our Nation's economy and they serve as a means of transportation on a daily basis for millions of hard working Americans. 
   So this legislation is a wake-up call. It is in fact to remind the administration that we have to do more work on transportation security inasmuch as we have seen done by others. 
   In 1995, the Irish Republican Army waged a long-running terrorist campaign against the London Underground. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Palestinian terrorists have carried out suicide bombings on Israeli buses. And so this legislation is to emphasize again that attacks on mass transit are possible and therefore we should look seriously at providing the security necessary. 
   Just recently I held a field hearing in New York to look at the ways of the New York transit system and how they were securing their particular system, one of the largest in the Nation. We learned that the National Explosive Detection Canine Team Program was very important, and therefore we want the TSA to continue that. We need TSA to continue to develop training programs for frontline workers and fulfill the other mandates Congress put in place in the 9/11 bill to increase security on rail and mass transit. This resolution is to provide that roadmap and to emphasize to TSA how important mass transit security is. 
   Might I just conclude by suggesting as my colleagues have discussed this whole question of energy, just think about a secure mass transit that will allow us to engage in a transit system that actually works. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman. 
   A secure mass transit will encourage more Americans to utilize our transit and our transportation system that is a public transit system. That is what those of us on this side of the aisle believe, a green economy, conservation, efficiency. And coming from Texas I would say to my good friend from California, we have happily lived with safe and secure and environmentally safe drilling and we encourage our very strong companies to continue to do so. But, at the same time, the word ``energy'' is a broad term. Green energy, efficiency, conservation. That is what this Congress has to preach to the American public, and safe and secure mass transit, of which all of these legislative initiatives are planning to do. 
   I would ask my colleagues in particular to support the legislation presently under consideration dealing with the mass transit resolution and all the other bills that have been able to come forward out of Homeland Security and under the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 1150, Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the Transportation Security Administration should, in accordance with the congressional mandate provided for in the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, enhance security against terrorist attack and other security threats to our Nation's rail and mass transit lines, introduced by myself. I rise today to offer this Resolution regarding the role of the Transportation Security Administration in securing our Nation's rail and mass transit lines. 
   This Resolution reaffirms the congressional mandate provided for in the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 that the Transportation Security Administration enhance security against terrorist attack and other security threats to our Nation's rail and mass transit lines. I am pleased to have Homeland Security Committee Chairman BENNIE THOMPSON, as an original cosponsor of this resolution. Chairman THOMPSON has been a leader in our efforts to secure against terrorist threats to our Nation's rail and mass transit lines. 
   Madam Speaker, each weekday 11,300,000 passengers depend on our Nation's mass transit lines as a means of transportation. Our Nation's mass transit lines serve as a target for terrorist attack as evidenced by the March 11, 2004, attack on the Madrid, Spain, mass transit system, the July 7, 2005, attack on the London, England, mass transit system, and the July 11, 2006, attack on the Mumbai, India, mass transit system. The Transportation Security Administration has, through the development of its National Explosives Detection Canine Team Program furthered its ability to provide security against terrorist attacks on the Nation's transportation systems by preventing and protecting against explosives threats. 
   It is imperative that our Nation's rail and mass transit lines remain secure from terrorist attack as they are critical to the functioning of our Nation's economy and serve as a means of transportation on a daily basis for millions of hard working Americans. Successful attacks against rail and mass transit targets have been carried out worldwide by terrorist looking to create havoc, economic harm, and kill innocent people. 
   Throughout the world, mass transit systems have long been targets of terrorist attacks. Algerian extremists set off bombs on the subways of Paris in 1995 and 1996; the Irish Republican Army waged a long-running terrorist campaign against the London Underground; Palestinian terrorists have carried out suicide bombings on Israel's buses; Chechnyan terrorists killed 40 people by bombing the Moscow subway in 2004; and, in the first terrorist use of a chemical weapon, a Japanese cult--Aum Shinrykyo--released sarin gas on a Tokyo subway in 1995. 
   Recent events make it clear that the threat continues. On the morning of March 11, 2004, ten explosions occurred at the height of the Madrid rush hour aboard four commuter trains. On July 7, 2005, during the morning peak travel hours, three separate explosions ripped through the London Underground and a fourth explosion occurred on a double-decker bus. These four explosions, the result of coordinated suicide-bombings by British-born Islamic extremists, claimed the lives of 56 people and seriously injured hundreds more. Two weeks later, on July 21, 2005, another group of terrorists unsuccessfully attempted to attack London's mass transit system again. On July 11, 2006 a series of seven bomb blasts against the Suburban Railway in Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay, capital city of the Indian state of Maharashtra and India's financial capital resulted in 207 lost lives and over 700 injured. 
   The recent attacks serve as a harsh reminder of mass transit and rail security vulnerabilities. Both mass transit and rail systems are public and used by millions of people daily. Because of their size, openness, and highly-networked character, there are no obvious checkpoints, like those at airports, to inspect passengers and parcels. Passengers are strangers, promising attackers anonymity and easy escape. 
   And attacks on mass transit--the circulatory systems of urban areas--can cause widespread fear, severely disrupt economic activity, kill or injure large numbers of people, and alter our way of life. An attack on our freight rail, either the material being transported, such as hazardous materials, or vital commodities, or merely the system itself, could severely impact our national economy. 
   As a result, both mass transit and rail systems are attractive targets. Since September 11, 2001, according to the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, mass transit systems have been the target of more than 145 terrorist attacks. 
   Due to their existence in high-population, high-risk urban areas, mass transit systems are also inevitably affected by any terrorist attack that may occur within that jurisdiction--regardless of whether the transit system was the  target of the attack. For example, during September 11, 2001, two of New York City's busiest transit stations were lost and considerable damage occurred to the tunnel structures, endangering hundreds of lives underground. Great care was required to evacuate passengers, locate and rescue trapped transit cars, and communicate instructions. The damage in New York City was so great that in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, Congress appropriated $1.8 billion to rebuild the subway infrastructure that was damaged in the attacks. I am hopeful that through this legislation we can prevent such attacks rather than face the tragic consequences of 9/11 again. 
   I refuse to sit idly by and allow another 9/11 or Madrid, London, or Mumbai bombing to disrupt our Nation and its critical infrastructure--it is with that conviction that I seek to address these issues. The recent world events should serve as a wake-up call that we must do more to secure our transportation systems and we must act quickly and responsibly. I firmly believe that the legislation before us today will take an important step in securing our transportation systems. 
   Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, ATSA, the Transportation Security Administration, TSA, is responsible for the security of all modes of transportation including rail and mass transit. TSA, however, has focused the majority of its resources and assets on aviation security in the past five years. I could go on with other examples, but what these instances show is that clearly it is imperative that TSA value rail and mass transit security on equal footing with aviation security. We are satisfied with the progress that TSA has made with the National Explosion Detection Team Program, but more is needed to train frontline employees. 
   Congress, recognizing TSA's lack of progress in developing a security strategy for all modes of transportation, mandated the development of a National Strategy for Transportation Security in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, 9/11 Act. This strategy, although due April 1, 2005, was not finalized by TSA until September 2005. Moreover, the document provided by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) did not meet the requirements set out by Congress, especially with regards to rail and mass transit security. Furthermore, subsequent congressionally mandated updates were also not met by TSA, resulting in the 9/11 Discourse Project giving the TSA a C- for its efforts. 
   TSA's failure to assume a leadership position on surface transportation security is plainly evident. It is time that we take action and leadership to help protect the more than 11.3 million passengers in 35 metropolitan areas and 22 states who use commuter, heavy, or light rail each weekday. There must be substantial penalties for those who do not follow the security plans, vulnerability assessments, and regulations set out in this legislation. 
   H. Res. 1150 is a straightforward resolution, but a very important one. Recognizing that TSA is the lead agency for transportation security, and all of the hard work Congress did last year to make rail and mass transit security programs more robust in the enactment of the 9/11 bill, we must continue to push TSA to fulfill the mandates for rail and mass transit security required by Congress. 
   Last month, the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, which I have the privilege of chairing, held a field hearing in New York City on efforts to secure rail and mass transit. It was a truly edifying experience. We learned much about what is being done to secure the New York Transit system and other systems across the Nation, and what TSA can do in its leadership role at the federal level, to facilitate these efforts. I want to commend TSA on its progress with the National Explosives Detection Canine Team Program, since most successful attacks on rail and mass transit are carried out using IEDs. However, we need TSA to continue to develop training programs for frontline workers, and fulfill the other mandates Congress put in place in the 9/11 bill to increase security on rail and mass transit. 
   TSA should reinvigorate their efforts to fulfill the mandates of the 9/11 bill. TSA has not submitted to the Committee on Homeland Security the National Strategy for Public Transportation Security which was mandated by the 9/11 bill, along with other deadlines including training regulations for frontline workers. TSA must submit this to both comply with the law and more importantly to protect Americans. 
   I find it completely appalling that this Administration seems to be unwilling to act on rail and mass transit security until we are faced with another disaster. I shudder to think that if the Washington, DC or New York subway systems were attacked, and mass casualties resulted, that we would be thinking that more could have been done to prevent such a tragedy. We will be desperately trying to figure out how to prepare for a disaster that has already happened and holding hearing after hearing to find out where we dropped the ball. The time to prepare is now, and I am committed to securing our Nation's rail and mass transit system expeditiously. We have been blessed thus far that our rail and public transportation systems have not been attacked. We should make our best efforts to ensure that we do not overlook this blessing. 
   From the terrorist attacks that have occurred around the world, we know that terrorists will target our rail and public transportation systems. Despite this admonition, the agency created and funded by Congress to address the issue of transportation security has consistently dropped the ball when it comes to rail and public transportation. We cannot let the lessons of Madrid, London, and Mumbai go unheeded. For the sake of the millions of Americans who use our rail and mass transit systems everyday to go to work, school, and visit friends and family, we have to take charge on this security risk. 
   We owe it to the public to safeguard the modes of transportation that allow them to carry on with their lives and drive this economy. Millions of men and women ride our Nation's rail and public transportation systems everyday; we owe it to them to ensure that they can do so safely and securely. I hope that through today's hearing and our continued efforts on the issue of rail and mass transit security, we can resolve the asymmetric way in which we treat aviation versus rail security and resolve the substantial threat posed by inadequate security on our rail and mass transit system. 
   I want to thank my colleagues for all of their hard work and dedication to these important issues.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL BOMBING PREVENTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4749, the National Bombing Prevention Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative KING This important legislation establishes the Office of Bombing Prevention within the Protective Security Coordination Division of the Office of Infrastructure Protection of the Department. 
   This legislation is a bipartisan bill, whose lead sponsor is the Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Representative KING, and is also cosponsored by Chairman THOMPSON. The function of the Office of Bombing Prevention already exists in the Department, and this bill establishes it in statute. The Office is responsible for coordinating the Government efforts to deter, detect, prevent, protect against, and respond to terrorist explosive attacks in the United States. As we all know, the most likely terrorist threat to our Nation's critical infrastructure and transportation modes is from explosives. 
   Madam Speaker, we need to ensure that the Office of Bombing Prevention has the protection of being established by the force of law, so the Department can more readily meet the threats to our Nation. This legislation requires the Secretary to develop and periodically update a national strategy to prevent and prepare for terrorist explosive attacks in the United States due 90 days after the date of enactment. The Secretary is further required to report to Congress regarding the national strategy. This strategy is also called for by Homeland Security Presidential Directive-19, Combating Terrorist Use of Explosives in the United States, issued by the President in February of 2007. This legislation also authorizes the Office to support technology transfer efforts as well as research into explosives detection and mitigation. 
   I did, however, have one reservation with regards to this legislation, regarding canine procurement, which is why I introduced an amendment, which was accepted by the full Committee, to address that issue. Dogs are used to detect illicit and illegal substances every day. They are used to: detect illegal narcotics; find money that is being smuggled out of the country; and locate explosives that may be concealed in cargo, within vehicles, on aircraft, in luggage and on passengers. 
   There is no doubt that every day, the actions of these dogs and their handlers significantly contribute toward deterring threats and protecting our Nation from terrorists. While the contributions of our canine forces are priceless, they are not without cost. We must place a price on what we are willing to pay for untrained dogs. 
   The Department of Homeland Security's Inspector General has found that from April 2006 through June 2007, Customs and Border Protection spent $1.46 million on purchasing 322 untrained dogs--that is about $4500 per dog. Most of these dogs are purchased in Europe and brought to America. These are not fully trained animals. They are puppies that will be trained to provide valuable service. I think most people would find $4500 for an untrained dog an exorbitant amount. 
   However, I cannot deem this amount out of bounds because the Department of Defense pays $3500 for each untrained dog. The Secret Service pays an average of $4500 for each untrained dog. Therefore, the price paid by CBP is within the acceptable range of current practice. However, I think that if we are to be good stewards of the American tax dollar, we must change the current practice. When one considers that domestic breeders offer the same kinds of dogs for $500-$2000, we cannot justify what I can only call a puppy tariff. 
   My amendment would require the Secretary to explore ways to reduce the amount we pay for each dog we purchase by considering the use of different breeds, procuring dogs from domestic breeders and seeking out dogs from animal shelters or rescue groups. If this Department can successfully implement a new method to obtain capable dogs for our homeland security needs, we could begin a trend that would save the American people millions of dollars each year. 
   With the inclusion of my amendment, I am deeply satisfied with this legislation. I am proud to support this legislation, which brings our great Nation closer to its goal of securing the homeland, and I encourage my colleagues to support this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FAIR, ACCURATE, SECURE, AND TIMELY REDRESS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. Mr. Speaker, I ask to revise and extend. 
   I want to add my appreciation to, again, the very, very able and distinguished Member YVETTE CLARKE from New York for her strong advocation for H.R. 4179 and legislation that came through the subcommittee of transportation security, which I chair, and her wisdom on bringing about a solution to a long-standing problem that we have seen come about after 9/11. 
   Every day, millions of Americans travel across the country and abroad by land, air, and sea. Unfortunately, we have a process in place, the terrorist watch list or database, which makes, or should make, traveling safe. However, there have been problems and misidentifications. Even air marshals have been denied boarding on air carriers on the very flights they were assigned to protect because of misidentification. 
   To date, more than 15,000 Americans have sought redress from the Transportation Security Administration and voluntarily provided information. But this system has not worked. We know two of our very own dear colleagues, Senator Kennedy and JOHN LEWIS, who I think have a pedigree beyond reproach, have been set aside, if you will, in trying to fly. 
   And so therefore, it is important to have a redress process that works and to assure that a person on the TSA's Clear List will not be stopped as a potential terrorist. H.R. 4179 by Congresswoman YVETTE CLARKE will establish an appeal and redress process to ensure that the Office of Appeals and Redress at the Department of Homeland Security actually work. 
   I do want to congratulate her for this forward thinking. I look forward to working with her as we move forward on additional legislation that addresses the question of dress. As we all know, imams who have cleared TSA could not board a plane in one of our midwest States because they were determined to be a threat when they had passed security, when their name was not on the watch list, and only because of religious actions. 
   And so this is an important step forward. We should be a Nation of security but also the protection of civil liberties. And I look forward to us making further steps to ensure that religious dress, attire, and talk does not in any way undermine your constitutional rights in this question. 
   My appreciation to Congresswoman Clarke. I ask my colleagues to enthusiastically support this legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4179, To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish an appeal and redress process for individuals wrongly delayed or prohibited from boarding a flight, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative Clarke, of which I am a proud original cosponsor. This important legislation will provide an effective and efficient mechanism through which Americans can seek redress. 
   Every day, millions of Americans travel across the country and abroad, by land, air, and sea. Fortunately, we have a process in place, the terrorist watch list or database, which makes travel safer for the traveling public. However, that very process has been plagued with problems and misidentifications. The American public has grown weary of the constant delays and misidentifications caused by incomplete and inaccurate information associated with the terrorist watch list or database. 
   For years, even Federal Air Marshals (FAMs) have been denied boarding by air carriers on the very flights they were assigned to protect because of misidentifications. To date, more than 15,000 Americans have sought redress from the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and voluntarily provided personal information to facilitate travel and prevent further misidentifications and delays. While the TSA maintains a ``Cleared List'' for individuals who have the same or similar name or other identifier as someone on the ``No Fly'' or ``Selectee'' lists but have gone through the redress process, there is a significant stagnation in the columniation and sharing of information. The Cleared List is then shared with airlines for screening purposes but it is not shared within the Department of Homeland Security or with other Federal agencies that use the terrorist watch list or database. Therefore, despite going through the redress process, there's nothing to assure that a person on the TSA's ``Cleared List'' will not be stopped as a potential terrorist by other Federal agencies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Sharing information on the Comprehensive Cleared List between components of the Department would alleviate redundancy and reduce excessive delays. 
   H.R. 4179, the Fair, Accurate, Secure and Timely (FAST) Redress Act of 2008, will establish an appeal and redress process to ensure that the Office of Appeals and Redress at the Department of Homeland Security becomes the ``one-stop shop'' that the American public deserves. 
   This legislation will require the DHS Secretary to establish a timely and fair redress process for individuals who believe they have been delayed or prohibited from boarding a commercial plane or denied a right, benefit, or privilege by DHS, because they were wrongly identified as a threat when screened against any terrorist watch list or database. It would also require the Office of Appeals and Redress to maintain a Comprehensive Cleared List that contains the names of individuals who have been misidentified and have corrected erroneous information. The DHS Secretary would be required to furnish the Comprehensive Cleared List to all DHS components and to other Federal, State, local, and Tribal authorities and others that use the terrorist watch list or database, to resolve misidentifications. 
   This important legislation will consolidate agency knowledge by requiring the compilation of a comprehensive cleared list of individuals who have been misidentified. It furthermore requires that the correction of erroneous information be maintained by the Department and shared with those agencies that use the terrorist watch list or database. Our citizens must not only be afforded an effective redress process, they must also be assured that once they have voluntarily provided personal information and successfully achieved redress, they are not repeatedly subjected to further misidentifications. This legislation is supported by the National Business Travel Association, who wrote to the Committee on Homeland Security in support of H.R. 4179. 
   The FAST Redress Act of 2008 explicitly requires the DHS Secretary to assure that TSA, CBP, the Coast Guard and other DHS components reference the Comprehensive Cleared List when assessing the security risk of an individual. It furthermore authorizes the DHS Secretary to enter into Memoranda of Understanding with other Federal agencies to enhance redress, including addressing legal name changes. 
   This bipartisan legislation directs the Secretary to engage in cooperative agreements with other relevant agencies so that legal name changes are reflected on the watch list and the cleared list. When it comes to watch and cleared lists, accuracy is the key. This change ensures that the Department has the most accurate information to evaluate American citizens. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is time we protect the civil rights and civil liberties of American citizens and lawful permanent residents. This bill will help eliminate false identifications and increase efficiency for the traveling public and I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT THE UNITED STATES SHOULD END COMMERCIAL WHALING -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 350, Expressing the sense of the Congress that the United States, through the International Whaling Commission, should use all appropriate measures to end commercial whaling in all of its forms, including scientific and other special permit whaling, coastal whaling, and community-based whaling, and seek to strengthen the conservation and management measures to facilitate the conservation of whale species, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from West Virginia, Representative Nick Rahall, and of which I am a proud cosponsor. This legislation is an important step in the conservation of the precious whale species. 
   As of today, 79 nations have adopted the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, which established the International Whaling Commission to provide for the conservation of whale stocks. The United States was instrumental in influencing the Commission to adopt a moratorium on commercial whaling, which is important in order to conserve and promote the recovery of whale stocks, many of which had been hunted to near extinction by the whaling industry. 
   However, three International Whaling Commission member nations continue to kill whales for financial gain, killing more than 25,000 whales since the moratorium, over 11,000 of which were killed under the guise of scientific research. Because nonlethal research alternatives exist, the majority of the world's cetacean scientists have found whaling conducted for scientific purposes unnecessary. Numerous resolutions have been adopted by the member nations of the International Whaling Commission opposing and calling for an end to scientific whaling, most recently in 2007 at the annual Commission meeting in Anchorage, Alaska. 
   Whaling undermines the conservation mandate of the International Whaling Commission and impairs the Commission's ability to function effectively. Allowing whaling for commercial purposes, or under the false guise of scientific research, is reprehensible. This whaling must end now. Additionally, the majority of Americans oppose killing whales for commercial purposes. They expect the Members of Congress to do all in their means to end this killing. We must listen to the American people on this issue. 
   By passing this legislation, we affirm to the American people our commitment to ending whaling in any form, including scientific and other special permit whaling, coastal whaling, and community-based whaling. It is an important step towards saving the whale species. Surely, this legislation should not be ignored. 
   H. Con. Res. 350 would encourage Congress to use all appropriate measures to end commercial whaling in all of its forms, oppose any initiative that would result in new whale hunting, and seek to strengthen conservation and management measures to facilitate the conservation of the whale species. I urge my fellow members of Congress to support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CIVIL AIR PATROL HOMELAND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1333, Civil Air Patrol Homeland Security Support Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Pennsylvania, Representative Dent. This important legislation is a first step for the Committee on Homeland Security to understand how the Civil Air Patrol can provide necessary Homeland Security assistance. 
   The Civil Air Patrol is a prime example of how Americans can get involved to support our Nation's preparedness and response to emergencies as well as our Nation's great history of civil aviation and aerospace education. The Civil Air Patrol is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization and also serves as the U.S. Air Force Auxiliary, when given an Air Force assignment for a Federal support mission. The Civil Air Patrol flies missions in one of two ways: they are either assigned an Air Force mission, wherein they fly on behalf of the Federal Government as the Air Force Auxiliary, or they fly in their non-profit status based on requests from State and local governments or other organizations, many of which have MOU's with the Civil Air Patrol that govern their partnerships. As such, the Civil Air Patrol  performs a vital service for this Nation, one which must be further examines and utilized. 
   Over the course of any given year, the Civil Air Patrol is responsible for conducting over 90 percent of the Nation's inland search and rescue operations on behalf of the Air Force. In fiscal year 2007 alone, the Civil Air Patrol helped save 103 lives. Beyond that capacity to execute search and rescue missions, the. Civil Air Patrol can also provide emergency transport for sensitive medical materials and conducts low-altitude reconnaissance surveys for the Government. Even with the Civil Air Patrol is not in the air but working on the ground, their volunteers have pitched in to assist with disaster response. 
   This important legislation will require that the GAG examine how the Civil Air Patrol's proficiency in aerial reconnaissance and communications can enhance our border security. It furthermore will assess the Civil Air Patrol's experience in conducting damage assessment and enhancing situational awareness and how that might be utilized to improve our Nation's collective response to an act of terrorism, natural disaster, or other man-made event. The GAG report produced by this legislation will be utilized to paint a clear picture of the cost-effectiveness of using Civil Air Patrol assets for homeland security missions and help this committee to understand whether the current mechanisms for Federal agencies and States to request CAP support are adequate. 
   In this age of a global war on terror, it is imperative that we utilize aIl the assets available to us to secure our homeland. The Civil Air Patrol has been an invaluable resource for this Nation and embodies the volunteer service that makes our Nation great. I commend the Civil Air Patrol for their commitment to service and protecting this country, and I support this legislation that seeks to further examine how we might use them for their homeland security capacity. 
   I wholeheartedly support this legislation and strongly urge all of my colleagues to join me in doing so.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING POSTELECTION VIOLENCE IN ZIMBABWE -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 1230, Condemning Postelection Violence in Zimbabwe and Calling for a Peaceful Resolution to the Current Political Crisis; introduced by my distinguished colleague from New Jersey, Representative DONALD PAYNE, of which I am a proud cosponsor. This important legislation calls on all security forces, informal militias and individuals to immediately cease attacks on and abuse of civilians. 
   The Zimbabwean African National Union-Patriotic Front, ZANU-PF, led by President Robert Mugabe, has controlled Zimbabwe's executive and legislative branches for 28 years; over the past 8 years, ZANU-PF has suppressed political dissidents and won elections and referendums through the use of vote rigging, localized violence, harassment, and intimidation. The political and economic situation in Zimbabwe has been worsening since 2000, culminating in the current electoral crisis. 
   In the wake of the elections, President Mugabe has unleashed security forces and militia against opposition supporters and members of civil society. Over 900 people have been tortured and beaten, and 22 have been confirmed dead. The offices of the Zimbabwe Election Support Network have been raided and some of its employees detained. Security forces have attacked humanitarian organizations and civil society groups. 
   Madam Speaker, such atrocities must come to an end. While the African Union, AU, and Southern African Development Community, SADC, have been continually engaged in efforts to bring about an end to the political crisis in Zimbabwe; unfortunately, after the AU and SADC dispatched delegations to Harare, they have not yet successfully compelled the Government of Zimbabwe to restore the rule of law. 
   The people of Zimbabwe are in desperate need of our aid. A prime example of this is represented through Zimbabwe's gross domestic product which declined about 43 percent between 2000 and 2007, and the unemployment rate of 80 percent. Zimbabwe's inflation rate, at almost 165,000 percent, is the  highest in the world and has contributed significantly to the country's economic collapse. Additionally, worsening economic conditions and commodity shortages have caused at least 3 million people to flee the country. 
   I firmly believe that we must pass this legislation in order to demonstrate through our actions that the people of the United States, local, State, national organizations and governmental institutions support democracy and oppose tyranny. 
   All parties must engage constructively towards peace and reconciliation for the sake of the Zimbabwean people. The people of Zimbabwe deserve the assistance of the international community in the restoration of fundamental human rights, democratic freedom, and the rule of law. That is why we must pass H. Res. 1230. 
   I am proud to support this legislation and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in so doing.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to indicate that I was detained off the floor for the Republican motion to recommit on the NASA authorization bill, H.R. 6063. I obviously oppose enthusiastically the waiving of section 526. 
   Had I been present, I would have voted ``no'' on the motion to recommit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (BIOMETRIC ENHANCEMENT FOR AIRPORT-RISK REDUCTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Mississippi, the chairman of the committee, and I want to thank him and applaud him for this legislation. 
   As has been indicated on the floor, the importance of ensuring the security and the sanctity of the particular identification, the technology, is key. One of the key problems that we have found in homeland security is, of course, the ability to tamper with the security document or the process. This legislation is an important, enhanced effort to ensure that that does not happen. 
   I want to thank the chairman for his leadership on this particular issue, and also, I think it's important to note that one of the commitments that homeland security has made is, ``Not on our watch,'' and we have steadfastly looked at all of the elements that need to be improved and enhanced in border security and aviation security to ensure that there are documents that can be, on their face, the kind of document that provides the necessary review and protection for the traveling public and for those who do business in the ports of America.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5982, the Biometric Enhancement Act for Airport-Risk Reduction Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Mississippi, Chairman Thompson. This important legislation requires TSA to provide Congress and airport operators with a breakdown on best practices for utilizing biometrics to better protect airports. 
   In the last few months, the Transportation Security Administration, TSA, has unveiled several new programs and initiatives that are proving to build a ``layered approach'' to security. And while the TSA is responsible for the 450 U.S. airports, and employs approximately 50,000, with the very important mission of keeping the traveling public safe from terrorist threats, it has done very little to strengthen airport security for workers with unescorted access to sterile and secure areas of the airport. At the present time, there are few mechanisms in place to ensure that contracted employees follow due diligence at our airports and access is granted to only those employees who belong on airport grounds at any given time. This legislation addresses these key issues by requiring TSA to provide Congress and airport operators with a breakdown on best practices for utilizing biometrics to better protect airports. 
   Mr. Speaker, only last November, Federal law enforcement raided Chicago's O'Hare International Airport in November 2007 
   and arrested 23 people for fraudulently securing badges to gain access to sensitive airport locations. According to the charging affidavit, more than 100 temporary workers were found to be in possession of the fraudulent badges and the staffing agency that sponsored these workers told them that they needed identification, but such identification did not have to be legitimate. 
   While today's workers with unescorted access to this critical infrastructure go through background screening, which includes terror watch list checks, to get issued badges, more must be done. While this is a necessary and important check, a job applicant's biometrics are not being captured to check against biographic information provided to establish the individual's identity. The legislation we have before us today is a smart security approach that promotes collaboration between TSA, industry, labor and other key stakeholders to work together to collectively develop and provide airports with a blueprint on how to make biometrics work for them. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation requires TSA to study how airports can transition to uniform, standards-based and interoperable biometric identifier systems for airport workers with unescorted access. This bill furthermore requires TSA and the working group to examine  existing programs, such as TWIC, and identify approaches on how biometrics can enhance protections for secure and sterile areas of the airport. TSA is also required by this bill to provide Congress and airport operators with a breakdown on best practices for using biometrics to improve airport security. 
   Mr. Speaker, this bill is not about re-inventing the wheel or putting a stop to any good work at TSA on this issue. It is about encouraging public-private partnerships and promoting an open dialogue between TSA, industry, and Congress on how best to secure our airports. I am proud to support this important and timely legislation, and I encourage my colleagues to join me in so doing.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CATCHING OPERATIONAL VULNERABILITIES BY ENSURING RANDOM TESTING ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5909, Catching Operational Vulnerabilities by Ensuring Random Testing Act of 2008, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative Lowe. This important legislation will further shore up the gaps in our testing and evaluation protocols for transportation security. 
   As we've seen just in the past year, the details of covert tests and evaluations have been disseminated to the screener workforce, thereby ``tipping-off' those we are trying to accurately and responsibly test. The Committee on Homeland Security has been extremely concerned about this issue and I have held hearings in the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, of which I am the chair, in order to examine what exactly has gone wrong. 
   Any efforts to compromise these important testing efforts, whether intentional or on accident, should not be tolerated. Some have claimed that one of these incidents--the April 2006 e-mail from TSA's Office of Security Operations that tipped TSA field staff off to covert tests--was unintentional, but evidence suggests otherwise. The April 2006 e-mail clearly referenced that individuals who were probing the system were Federal employees and even provided a physical description of one of the employees conducting the tests. This bill is necessary to prohibit individuals from providing advance notice of covert tests to any persons, unless authorized to do so by the Assistant Secretary of the Transportation Security Administration, the Inspector General of the Department, or the Comptroller General of the United States. 
   The COVERT Act of 2008 explicitly prohibits the advance notice or notification to individuals by those employees who are participating in a covert test or evaluation, which will ensure that the integrity of all covert testing efforts--across all modes of transportation--are protected, not just aviation. This legislation puts in place controls to monitor the testing personnel and the testing and evaluation procedures by building in accountability. It establishes the presence of a second team of covert test and evaluation employees with the first team in order to monitor and confirm their actions. Finally, the act requires an impact study to evaluate covert testing and evaluation and how it could be incorporated into other training and testing programs. The study is required to include: Recommendations on the implementation and execution of this section; an assessment on the results of covert testing; a summary of best practices on how to best integrate covert testing into other programs; and recommendations for additional personnel training necessary to fulfill this act. The study and report will also provide an assessment on the test and evaluation results and recommendations for personnel training required to fulfill the act. 
   Mr Speaker, if we choose to ignore these past disclosures, we provide future opportunities to compromise a worthy program intended to educate the workforce and benefit the security of our transportation systems throughout the country. One tip-off of a covert test is one too many. We've already had three that we know of. Let's do our part to stop any future tip-offs. 
   I am proud to support this incredibly important and timely legislation and I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (LOBBYING TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I will take my time now to applaud and thank both the chairman of the full committee Mr. Conyers, and the ranking member of the full committee, my colleague from Texas, Mr. Smith, and our former colleague Mr. Van Hollen for having a partnership between H.R. 2317 and H.R. 2316. 
   I think the first point I'd like to make is that as I have spent a lot of time in this first session, first couple of months, with a lot of visitors who have come to this Capitol, I've watched them look in awe, visit with their Member of Congress, and appreciate this most powerful law-making body that cherishes democracy and values integrity.     
   I know that visitors have a great sense of respect for their individual Members of Congress. I want you to know that that respect is well deserved. Your Member is hard-working. They cherish not only the democratic values of this Nation, but they pride themselves in promoting integrity and promoting your interests over their interests. 
   But sometimes we need a little cleanup. It does not mean that the whole body has disregarded the question of integrity and the question of ensuring your interests be put forth. But we have had some bumps in the road. 
   So we have projected two legislative initiatives that will separate out the interests at work of lobbyists. That is part of the Democratic process, but it will also provide an opportunity for voices to be heard, the right of the protections of the first amendment. 
   As it relates to the concept of bundling, which sounds like a very interesting and difficult word, that is the course of putting a number of financial contributions together. We will have a system that will work, that everyone who is here to put forward the interests of the American people, will, in fact, know that that is the first priority. 
   But we have a system that does not promote public finance. I would like to see us have a complete system of public financing. That means the taxpayers will contribute toward the presidential candidates, and they would not be able to opt out Federal congressional candidates, Senate and House. That will be a system dominated by the people. 
   But we don't have that system. So we have good-thinking people who want to contribute, and we have good people, good-thinking people who would receive. Let us not taint all of them. 
   But I rise to support these two initiatives, because they provide the open-door transparency that we need. I want to thank Chairman Conyers, first of all, for accepting my amendment that clearly stated that those advocacy groups that wanted to be heard, the right of the protections of the First Amendment. 
   Nothing in this bill denies any first amendment protection for expression or association. I know the leadership of Chairman Conyers on the issue of civil liberties, in complete, but I wanted to reaffirm this fact so that we know for sure, any Member coming to the floor to vote for this, they know their university or they know their place of faith, or they know the Boy Scouts or the Girl Scouts, or they know their various civil rights organizations will still have the opportunity to convey their voice with the assurance of first amendment protection. 
   I also want to thank Mr. Van Hollen for working with me to include language that I hope all Members will appreciate, and that is, as I stated earlier, that Members come here with the greatest sense of integrity and respect for their duty to the American people. So we provided a provision that instructs lobbyists to give notice to the Member of the list of items that they are going to file. That Member cannot, if you will, stop the list from being filed, but the Member will have the opportunity, the Member of Congress, to be able to read the list and make sure that it is accurate as it is being filed. 
   We will not stop the time from ticking, if you will, for the filing process, but we will make the system work better and provide for the participation by all of the impacted parties. The congressional Member will be allowed to receive the notice of this filing and have the opportunity to correct it, to make sure it is consistent with his or her files. 
   These are difficult times, because we all realize our ultimate responsibility is to the American people. We must put them over self. But my amendment in this bill, I believe, will help the open-door transparency proceed, family and I ask my colleagues to support it.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2317, the ``Lobbying Transparency Act of 2007.'' I rise in support of legislation that will help bring about the most open government and the most honest leadership in the history of the Congress. Most of the credit for this achievement goes to my very good friend, the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Van Hollen, for his tenacity in shepherding this legislation through the gamut that is the House legislative process. 
   In particular, Madam Speaker, I wish to commend Mr. Van Hollen and the Rules Committee for agreeing to incorporate my friendly amendment to H.R. 2316. Let me describe the bill and explain why I believe the incorporation of the Jackson-Lee amendment improves the bill to the point where it warrants the support of the members of this body. 
   H.R. 2316 requires registered lobbyists to provide quarterly reports to the House clerk and secretary of the Senate regarding the ``bundled'' contributions totaling more than $5,000 in a quarter that they provide to a covered recipient. 
   ``Bundled contributions'' are contributions that are received by a registered lobbyist and forwarded to a covered recipient, or contributions that are otherwise credited or attributed to a lobbyist through records, designations or other means of tracking, such as placing the lobbyist's name on a check's memo line or using another symbol. The bill's definition of ``covered recipients'' applies to federal candidates, federal officeholders, leadership political action committees or political party committees. 
   The required reports would disclose the name of the lobbyist, the name of his or her  employer, and the name of the covered recipient to whom the contributions were given, as well as the amount of the contributions made or a good-faith estimate thereof. The report would be due within 45 days of the end of the quarterly period. These reports would not include certain information that is included in other required disclosure reports. Within 25 days of the end of a quarterly reporting period, the registered lobbyist is to send a notification by certified mail to a covered recipient outlining the information that will be included in the lobbyists' report, and the source of each contribution. 
   For all its good intentions, for many members these provisions are problematic. There is a legitimate concern that the information the lobbyist might report to the Clerk or Secretary of the Senate may be inaccurate or incomplete which may later be disclosed to the public causing untold problems or embarrassment to the covered recipient. The amendment that I offered, and which has been incorporated into the bill, assuages that concern. 
   The Jackson-Lee amendment requires that the statement which a covered registered lobbyist must provide to the recipient also shall include a notification that the recipient has the right to respond to the statement to challenge and correct any information included before the registered lobbyist files the report with the Clerk of the House or Secretary of the Senate. 
   The inclusion of this provision will reduce the likelihood that the recipient will be unduly prejudiced by the disclosure of inaccurate information by giving the recipient notice and opportunity to identify, and the lobbyist the opportunity to correct, inaccurate information regarding bundled contributions. 
   In sum, H.R. 2317 now will help ensure that the salutary objectives of the legislation are achieved without reaping the unintended consequence of prejudicing a recipient--whether he or she be an office holder or candidate for federal office--by the disclosure of inaccurate or incomplete information. 
   Madam Speaker, all of us favor open government. All of us favor honest leadership. And all of us are in favor of transparency of process. But we also believe in fundamental fairness. And that includes fairness to those who seek to exercise their First Amendment rights to freedom of speech and of association, and to petition their government for a redress of grievances. 
   That is why I offered, and the Judiciary Committee, approved my amendment during markup that provides a rule of construction that nothing in H.R. 2316 is intended or is to be construed to prohibit any expressive conduct protected from legal prohibition by, or any activities protected by the free speech, free exercise, or free association clauses of, the First Amendment to the Constitution. 
   The Jackson-Lee amendment incorporated in H.R. 2317 is intended to ensure fair treatment to elected office holders and candidates for federal office. 
   Again, let me thank Mr. VAN HOLLEN for his fine work in crafting this legislation. Let me also thank the members of the Rules Committee incorporating my amendment into H.R. 2317. I urge all members to support this legislation. It will be another step in the right direction toward fulfilling our promise to the American people to drain the swamp and return open government, honest leadership, and transparency to the legislative process. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2316, the ``Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007.'' With the adoption of this legislation, we begin to make good on our pledge to ``drain the swamp'' and end the ``culture of corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress. 
   It is critically important that we adopt the reforms contained in H.R. 2316 because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq for administration cronies. 
   The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, a former congressman pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--accepting all-expense-paid trips to play golf in Scotland and accepting meals, sports and concert tickets, while providing legislative favors for Abramoff's clients. 
   But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into signed conference reports in the dead of night. 
   The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exit polls indicated that 74 percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very important issue in their choice at the polls. 
   Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is why as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate given the new majority by the voters, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics reform package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress of the United States. 
   Madam Speaker, federal lobbying is a multi-billion dollar industry, and spending to influence members of Congress and executive branch officials has increased greatly in the last decade. While the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (LDA) is one of the main laws to promote transparency and accountability in the federal lobbying industry and represents the most comprehensive overhaul of the laws regulating lobbying practices in 50 years prior to 1995, it falls far short of a complete solution, as even recognized by its staunchest supporters, during congressional hearings on the issue. 
   The need for further reform was highlighted by a major study of the federal lobbying industry published in April 2006 by the Center for Public Integrity, which found that since 1998, lobbyists have spent nearly $13 billion to influence members of Congress and other federal 
   officials on legislation and regulations. The same study found that in 2003 alone, lobbyists spent $2.4 billion, with expenditures for 2004 estimated to grow to at least $3 billion. This is roughly twice as much as the already vast amount that was spent on federal political campaigns in the same time period. 
   The LDA contains a number of measures to help prevent inappropriate influence in the lobbying arena and promote sunshine on lobbying activities. However, according to the Center's study, compliance with these requirements has been less than exemplary. For example, the report found: during the last 6 years, 49 out of the top 50 lobbying firms have failed to file one or more of the required forms; nearly 14,000 documents that should have been filed are missing; almost 300 individuals, companies, or associates have lobbied without ng registered; more than 2,000 initial registrations were filed after the legal deadline; and in more than 2,000 instances, lobbyists never filed the required termination documents at all. 
   Under the LDA, the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House must notify in writing any lobbyist or lobbying firm of noncompliance with registration and reporting requirements, and they must also notify the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia of the noncompliance if the lobbyist or lobbying firm fails to respond within 60 days of its notification. It appears that until very recently, however, these cases of noncompliance were not being referred to the Department of Justice for enforcement. It is also clear that the infractions that are actually being investigated by the Secretary or the Clerk do not coincide with the extent of noncompliance, and it is entirely unknown whether enforcement actions are being effectively pursued by the Department of Justice. Clearly, further reform is needed. 
   Madam Speaker, I commend Chairman CONYERS and the members of the Judiciary Committee for their excellent work in preparing this lobbying reform package. The reforms contained in the package are tough but not nearly too tough for persons elected to represent the interests of the 600,000 constituents in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar bipartisan lobbying and government reform proposals were debated and passed by the House and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to reconcile the two versions. 
   Madam Speaker, I support H.R. 2316 because it closes the ``Revolving Door,'' requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities, provides tougher enforcement of lobbying restrictions, and requires increased disclosure. 
   H.R. 2316 closes the ``Revolving Door'' by retaining the current 1-year ban on lobbying by former members and senior staff and requires them to notify the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct within 3 days of engaging in any negotiations or reaching any agreements regarding future employment or salary. The members' notification will be publicly disclosed. 
   The bill also requires members and senior staff to recuse themselves during negotiations regarding future employment from any matter in which there is a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict. 
   Madam Speaker, this legislation also ends the ``K Street Project,'' made notorious during the 12 years of Republican control of Congress. Members and senior staff are prohibited from influencing employment decisions or practices of private entities for partisan political gain. Violators of this provision will be fined or imprisoned for a term of up to 15 years. 
   Second, H.R. 2316 requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities by strengthening lobbying disclosure requirements. It does this by mandating quarterly, rather than semiannual, disclosure of lobbying reports. It covers more lobbyists by reducing the contribution thresholds from $5,000 to $2,500 in income  from lobbying activities and from $20,000 to $10,000 in total lobbying expenses. It also reduces the contribution threshold of any organization other than client that contributes to lobbying activities to $5,000 ($10,000 under current law). 
   Third, the legislation increases disclosure of lobbyists' contributions to lawmakers and entities controlled by lawmakers, including contributions to members' charities, to pay the cost of events or entities honoring members, contributions intended to pay the cost of a meeting or a retreat, and contributions disclosed under FECA relating to reports by conduits. 
   Fourth, the bill requires the House Clerk to provide public Internet access to lobbying reports within 48 hours of electronic filing and requires that the lobbyist/employing firm provide a certification or disclosure report attesting that it did not violate House/Senate gift ban rules. And it makes it a violation of the LDA for a lobbyist to provide a gift or travel to a member/officer or employee of Congress with knowledge that the gift or travel is in violation of House/Senate rules. 
   Transparency is increased by the requirements in the bill that lobbyists disclose past Executive and Congressional employment and that lobbying reports be filed electronically and maintained in a searchable, downloadable database. For good reason, the bill also requires disclosure of lobbying activities by certain coalitions but expressly exempts 501(c) and 527 organizations. 
   Finally, Madam Speaker, H.R. 2316 increases civil penalties for violation of the Lobby Disclosure Act from $50,000 to $100,000 and adds a criminal penalty of up to 5 years for knowing and corrupt failure to comply. Finally, the bill requires members to prohibit their staff from having any official contact with the member's spouse who is a registered lobbyist or is employed or retained by such an individual and establishes a public database of member Travel and Personal Financial Disclosure Forms. 
   Madam Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that at the beginning of this new 110th Congress, the Members of this House, along with all of the American people, paid fitting tribute to the late President Gerald R. ``Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this House, who did so much to heal our Nation in the aftermath of Watergate. Upon assuming the presidency, President Ford assured the Nation: ``My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.'' By his words and deeds, President Ford helped turn the country back on the right track. He will be forever remembered for his integrity, good character, and commitment to the national interest. 
   This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the most honest, most ethical, most responsive, most transparent Congress in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the needs of the American people before those of the lobbyists and special interests. To do that, we can start by adopting H.R. 2316.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VOTE ON THE WAR SUPPLEMENTAL -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I'm very proud that the actions on the House floor today reflect the attitude of a caring Nation, and so I'm very proud that we have had the opportunity now to pass out of this House for the President's signature an increase in the minimum wage; relief for small businesses; a fix for the Walter Reed debacle, and the health care for the many families and soldiers, soldiers that are returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan; and the crisis in the gulf region has been responded to by hopefully providing dollars for education and a construction of homes. 
   As we enter upon this weekend to memorialize the dead, I could not continue a disastrous war, and so I proudly stand as a caring American to have voted against the continuation of this war. But I say to those who are fallen and to their families, we mourn you, we respect you, and we admire your service. Together we will continue to press forward so that this war, this misdirected mission, will end. 
   But to our soldiers that we will honor, as we return home to our districts, we say to their families, they were victorious, they were successful, they were honorable, they are patriots, they are loved by America. May I salute you, and God bless the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING NATIONAL HOMEOWNERSHIP MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1271, Recognizing National Homeownership Month and the importance of homeownership in the United States, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative GARY MILLER. This timely legislation helps to highlight the importance of ownership by recognizing homeowners in the United States. 
   This legislation recognizes June 2008 as National Homeownership Month. We should be very proud that the people of the United States are one of the best-housed populations in the world. This phenomenon has evolved because we are anchored in the belief that owning a home is a fundamental part of the American dream and is the largest personal investment many families will ever make. Homeownership provides economic security for homeowners by aiding them in building wealth over time and strengthens communities through a greater stake among homeowners in local schools, civic organizations, and churches. Creating affordable homeownership opportunities requires the commitment and cooperation of the private, public, and nonprofit sectors, including the Federal Government and State and local governments. In 2007, Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in pre-foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active foreclosures. 
   This is why it is important that we reaffirm that homeownership can be sustained through appropriate homeownership education and informed borrowers. Affordable homeownership and maintaining the confidence and morale of current homeowners will play a vital role in resolving the crisis in the United States housing market: Now, therefore, I fully support the goals and ideals of National Homeownership Month, and I recognize the importance of homeownership in building strong communities and families. 
   H. Res. 1271 recognizes homeowners and only homeowners, not speculators or lenders. This legislation reminds us that we cannot continue to stand by as the housing market continues to deteriorate. U.S. home prices tumbled in April at the fastest rate since a widely-followed index was begun in 2000 with all 20 metropolitan areas posting annual declines for the first time. Texas reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, a 16 percent increase from the previous month and the most foreclosure filings reported by any state. The state documented the nation's third highest state combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 households. 
   Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of loosing their homes. 
   This bill should not be the last word in housing legislation nor should it be restricted to the status of symbolic rhetoric. The American people need us to intervene in this housing crisis that is leaving many undeserving families homeless. This bill coupled with Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS' bill, H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood Stabilization Act, provides a good starting point in providing Americans with relief. We must never forget that many of the New Deal programs under President Roosevelt were considered bailouts at that time. And yet, these programs brought our country out of the Depression, rejuvenated our economy, and gave hope as we sought to deal with the War overseas. 
   We are spending billions of dollars on the war in Iraq. I support our troops but I am dismayed at how our support for a war that needs to become less military and more diplomatic in nature, has disrupted our ability to take care of things at home. Thank you Madam Speaker for your leadership in this area, I urge my colleagues to support recognizing American homeowners by supporting H.R. 1271.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING GRATITUDE FOR THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE AMERICAN GI FORUM ON ITS 60TH ANNIVERSARY -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Filner, for constantly coming down on the side of veterans, and my good friend and colleague, Congressman Rodriguez, who eloquently articulated the importance of the GI Forum on its 60th anniversary. Let me thank the ranking member for participating in this debate, and commend my colleagues to this important resolution. 
   I would just speak briefly of the GI Forum, that I saw just recently in a Judiciary Committee hearing, looking at the treatment of some of our soldiers who are not yet citizens, and how the burden falls on their shoulders, even though they are on the front lines of fighting for our freedom. So we do know there are inequities. But we appreciate the GI Forum for its leadership over the years, and clearly its founding member, who worked so hard and certainly is someone renowned and respected in Texas. 
   So let me briefly congratulate the GI Forum in its 60th year, and commend my colleagues to reading about Army Major Hector P. Garcia, who we honored just a few weeks ago by naming the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and then recently reauthorized after Mr. Garcia. 
   One item that comes to mind is that he moved the GI Forum, after being recognized by Lyndon Baines Johnson, Ronald Reagan as President, and former President Clinton, for his service, he began to move the GI Forum towards civil rights. He questioned some of the inequities, and used this organization with its mighty might of returning veterans to speak on behalf of those who cannot speak for themselves. They did fight for education and civil rights and good health care. 
   One of the stories that he is well-known for is the story recounted by my good friend from Texas of the soldier who came home from World War II and was not able to be buried in a South Texas funeral home. He thought that to be an unfortunate set of circumstances, and he called then President of the United States and moved this soldier from South Texas to be ultimately buried in the Arlington Cemetery. 
   So that is the standard of the GI Forum. It is a helping hand for veterans. It is a respected, renowned, national organization, full of patriots who understand as they fought for freedom on the battlefields across the world that they would also fight for freedom here in the United States. 
   Let me applaud the Veterans Committee and my good friend Congressman Rodriguez for this very astute legislation, recognition of a valid civil rights organization, the GI Forum, and ask my colleagues to vote for this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING HEARTFELT SYMPATHY FOR THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES OF THE RECENT IOWA TORNADO -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I rise to support this legislation of Mr. Terry and to offer my deep sympathy. 
   I serve on the board of the Boy Scouts in the Houston-Galveston area and have worked with the Boy Scouts for a very, very long time. And so I want to offer to the families of those who lost their life the deepest sympathy of those from Texas and to be able to express my appreciation for the organization of Boy Scouts that teaches character and leadership and empathy. 
   And listening to the testimonies of those who survived and listening to the testimony of those boys who then  helped others survive, I know that even in the loss of these young heroes other young boy Scouts will learn the lessons even better of leadership and challenge. 
   I'd like to add my sympathy to the families and to the community. As we look over the Midwest, this has been an enormously tragic time. Families have lost their homes. They've lost loved ones, but this was particularly heart-wrenching, and many of us know the service that Boy Scouts give across America. 
   And so I ask my colleagues, along with the Members who have come to the floor today to support H. Res. 1283, to recognize the great loss that we've experienced. We have to champion the organization of Boy Scouts that teaches leadership and service, but also begins to build the building blocks that allows those young men to be courageous as they were to help others in their time of need. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask support of the legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MEDICARE IMPROVEMENTS FOR PATIENTS AND PROVIDERS ACT OF 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6331, the ``Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008.'' I would like to thank my colleague from New York, Chairman Charles Rangel for his leadership in this important issue. 
   This legislation could not come at a more crucial time. Americans are in need of support. Rising gas prices, food costs at an all-time high, and a rocky housing market have pushed this great Nation towards an economic downturn. Families are clinging to basic necessities and quality healthcare is one of those essential needs. 
   I am pleased to see that there is no language that inhibits physician ownership of general acute care hospitals. I have worked tirelessly with Members of leadership and with the Texas delegation to support general acute-care hospitals and their future development. Physicians who have decided to build in areas  where often no other hospital will--should not be penalized for their commitment to work on the clinical and business side of health care. 
   General acute-care hospitals still need to be able to: maintain a minimum number of physicians available at all times to provide service; provide a significant amount of charity care; treat at least 1/6 of their outpatient visits for emergency medical conditions on an urgent basis without requiring a previously scheduled appointment; maintain at least 10 full-time interns or residents-in-training in a teaching program; advertise or present themselves to the public as a place which provides emergency care; serve as a disproportionate share provider, serving a low income community with a disproportionate share of low income patients; and have at least 90 hospital beds available to patients. 
   This issue is of the utmost importance to me because I, like others in the Democratic Caucus, have hospitals and hospital systems such as University Hospital Systems of Houston in my district that would have been greatly affected by this provision. 
   For example, 2 years ago, St. Joseph Medical Center, downtown Houston's first and only teaching hospital, was on the verge of closing its doors. However, a hospital corporation in partnership with physicians purchased it, and as a result of proper and responsible management, has made it the premier hospital in the region, with a qualified emergency room responsive to a heavily populated downtown Houston. St. Joseph Medical Center is also in the process of reopening Houston Heights Hospital, the fourth oldest acute care hospital in Houston. This hospital will be serving a large Medicare/Medicaid population. 
   I am committed to this issue and to the issue of health care for all Americans. Provisions that could end the expansion of truly compassionate hospital care in places like Texas, Maryland, New York and California have no place in healthcare legislation. 
   What I do support is legislation that seeks to aid our elderly, our disabled, our veterans, our children and our indigent populations. I stand here today to show my support not only for the physicians and medical care providers of Houston, Texas, but for all of our healthcare providers across this country. We need them to continue to be able to care for our underserved and elderly--this bill allows them to do just that. 
   This bill provides a delay of 18 months for the competitive bidding program for Durable Medical Equipment, DMEPOS. It also prevents the 10.6 percent pay cut to physicians that is 
   scheduled to take place on July 1, and provides a 1.1 percent update starting January 1, 2009. 
   This bill also includes important beneficiary improvements such as Medicare mental health parity, improved preventive coverage, and enhanced assistance for low-income beneficiaries. 
   It contains provisions that will protect the fragile rural health care safety net. In my home State of Texas, we have not only great urban areas such as Houston, Dallas and Austin, we have over 300 rural areas in Texas with cities such as Rollingwood and Hamilton. 
   Our rural health care providers are scheduled to receive steep cuts in Medicare reimbursement rates on July 1 unless we take action now. Such cuts are catastrophic in rural America, where a disproportionate number of elderly Americans live. These seniors are, per capita, older, poorer and sicker (with greater chronic illnesses) than their urban counterparts. Additionally, recruitment and retention of providers to much of rural America is often daunting. Provider shortages are rampant throughout many rural and most frontier regions. 
   Additionally, H.R. 633 also includes several other critical provisions for rural providers which, cumulatively, create a rural package that will help protect both the rural health safety net and the health of tens of millions of seniors who call rural America home. 
   H.R. 6331 focuses on strengthening primary care and takes significant strides in protecting rural seniors' access to care by correcting certain long-standing inequities between rural and urban providers. 
   Thank you both for your continued concern for the health of rural Americans. So many enduring inequities in health care must be faced by rural patients and providers daily. H.R. 6331 offers critical assistance and will go far to improving the health of millions of rural Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Quality measures must continue to be adequately funded in order to promote quality, cost-effective health care for consumers and employers. The uncertainty of Medicare payments makes it increasingly difficult for surgeons and their practices to plan for the expenses that they will incur as they serve their patients. 
   The provisions included in H.R. 6331 would enable surgeons and surgical practices to plan for the rising costs that they will continue to face over the next year and a half. 
   By addressing payment levels through 2009, Chairman Rangel has given us more time to study the payment issues surrounding Medicare and allow us to look at the systemic reforms needed to preserve access to quality surgical care and other physician services. 
   As a long-time advocate for universal health care, I believe we must continue to support our essential medical providers so that they can focus on patient care. We need more physicians as we seek to expand health care for all Americans. Yet, how can we expect to grow that workforce when we continue to cut their reimbursement levels? We must support our physicians so that they may support and care for their patients. We have to continue to look at how we can save Medicare and expand it to care for those who need it most. 
   I am proud to cosponsor legislation that will add support for our healthcare workforce. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank Mr. Neal for his leadership and as well thank my good friend Chairman Rangel and fellow Texas friend Mr. Brady, Mr. Costello, and others who have been engaged in this legislation. 
   I chair the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection. We have much overlapping concerns as relates to the aviation industry. So I rise to support these extensions because I believe that we do have a challenge in not disallowing these payments to go forward. 
   The costs of air travel have increased rapidly in the last few months. Airlines have not only increased the price of air fare, but they have been forced to put charges on extra baggage, cut flights, and lay off hundreds of employees. But safe, secure air travel is essential, as it is beneficial environmentally, socially, and especially economically necessary. Without the ability to travel by air cheaply and easily, the flow of people, goods, and ideas would substantially decrease. 
   I represent Houston Intercontinental Airport and the headquarters for Continental Airlines. I see it firsthand. In order to be able to have safe secure travel, the necessary resources must be in place. 
   I look forward to meeting with the leadership of my hometown airline to discuss what Congress can do as it relates to jet fuel. Although we know how many of our consumers are suffering because of price per gallon for gasoline, the need for jet fuel and the cost has risen exponentially, with no relief in sight. 
   In fact, let me applaud Continental Airlines for its alliance with Star Alliance just last week to be able to provide more services and other necessary support matters being taken care of. It is standing independently, but as well, it has its own concerns. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If we do not extend funding to airline programs, many negative consequences will ensue, including the cutting of services, such as air traffic control, certification, and inspection, as well as the inability by the airlines to buy new equipment for aging infrastructure. 
   As I travel around the country on behalf of my constituents, I'm also hearing from small towns who are concerned that because of the high cost of flying, those centers will be cut off. Although I live in the fourth largest city in the Nation, I'm not interested in seeing others in the surrounding areas of Texas not have air transport. 
   The Airport and Airway Trust Fund was established in 1970 ``to provide for the expansion and improvement of the Nation's airport and airway system.'' It has provided funds for the Federal Aviation Administration. 
   And so this is an important extension because we need air travel, but we need it in the right way. 
   Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with my colleagues and addressing the question of high fuel costs, of looking at ensuring the safety and security of our fellow travelers, and as well to ensure that we have opportunities for minority businesses to work on these large projects that are coming forward. 
   This is a necessary bill. I ask my colleagues to support it.  
   I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 6327, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the funding and expenditure authority of the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative CHARLES B. RANGEL. This important legislation will extend funding in order to  improve transportation for Americans across the Nation. 
   The costs of air travel have increased rapidly in the last few months. Airlines have not only increased the price of air fare, but they have been forced to put charges on extra baggage, cut flights, and lay off hundreds of employees. Air travel is essential, as it is beneficial environmentally, socially, and especially economically. Without the ability to travel by air cheaply and easily, the flow of people, goods, and ideas would substantially decrease. 
   If we do not extend funding to airline programs, many negative consequences will ensue, including cutting services, such as air traffic control, certification, and inspection, as well as the inability by the airlines to buy new equipment for the aging infrastructure. 
   It is obvious that something must be done to solve this pressing problem. It is necessary for airlines to look into alternative means in order to increase their effectiveness. However, it is also necessary for the United States to fund several programs. 
   The Airport and Airway Trust Fund was established in 1970 ``to provide for the expansion and improvement of the Nation's airport and airway system.'' Since then, it has provided funds for the Federal Aviation Administration. Various pieces of legislation have come before the Congess to extend this fund, and yet partisanship has stalled these bills. It is necessary for us to extend this program in order to modernize our air traffic control system. NextGen, a state-of-the-art air traffic control system, would allow control towers to pinpoint the exact locations of aircraft, making the skies less chaotic, and air travel much more efficient. 
   Additionally, the extension of the Airport Improvement Program is necessary in order to improve safety and efficiency in our air travel. Airports are sites used by millions and millions of Americans every single day. It is vital that airports, travelers, and air flight personnel be secure, and thus it is important to continue to fund this program. 
   Even though air travel is obviously important, other forms of travel contribute to the Nation as well. The Highway Trust Fund was created by the Highway Revenue Act of 1956 to ensure a dependable source of financing for the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways. This is the premier fund for Government spending on highways, with approximately 45 percent of all highway spending coming from this fund. The Congressional Budget Office predicts the fund will run a deficit of $1.7 billion at the end of 2009 and $8.1 billion by the end of 2010. The Highway Trust Fund balance must be restored. 
   This bill will extend the taxes that fund the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, extend the expenditure authority of the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, extend the Airport Improvement Program, and restore the Highway Trust Fund balance. This will be important to keep airports modernized and we should also ensure that minority-owned and women-owned and small businesses have equal chances for construction work. This is a vital bill for cities like Houston, Texas, which happens to have one of the top 10 airports in the Nation. I urge my fellow members of Congress to support H.R. 6327 in order to increase efficiency, safety, and functioning of our Nation's transportation systems.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STOP CHILD ABUSE IN RESIDENTIAL PROGRAMS FOR TEENS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5876, ``Stop the Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens.'' I would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Education and Labor for bringing this very important legislation to the floor. 
   On Capitol Hill we often debate matters that can address varying viewpoints. I believe that this legislation can only be looked at from two angles--right and wrong. 
   They are everybody's children, and nobody's children. They are the forgotten children in the Texas foster care and residential care system. Black, White, Hispanic, and Asian--they all need the love of a mother, the nurturing of a family, and the support of their community. Some of them find homes with caring foster parents or in treatment centers with experienced and caring providers. And some do not. 
   This legislation allows us to keep our children safe with: 
   New national standards for private and public residential programs-- 
   Prohibit programs from physically, mentally, or sexually abusing children in their care; 
   Prohibit programs from denying children essential water, food, clothing, shelter, or medical care--whether as a form of punishment or for any other reason; 
   Require that programs only physically restrain children if it is necessary for their safety or the safety of others, and to do so in a way that is consistent with existing federal law on the use of restraints; 
   Require programs to provide children with reasonable access to a telephone and inform children of their right to use the phone; 
   Require programs to train staff in understanding what constitutes child abuse and neglect and how to report it; and 
   Require programs to have plans in place to provide emergency medical care. 
   Prevent deceptive marketing by residential programs for teens-- 
   Require programs to disclose to parents the qualifications, roles, and responsibilities of all current staff members; 
   Require programs to notify parents of substantiated reports of child abuse or violations of health and safety laws; and 
   Require programs to include a link or web address for the website of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which will carry information on residential programs. 
   Hold teen residential programs accountable for violating the law-- 
   Require states to inform the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of reports of child abuse and neglect at covered programs and require HHS to conduct investigations of such programs to determine if a violation of the national standards has occurred; and 
   Give HHS the authority to assess civil penalties of up to $50,000 against programs for every violation of the law. 
   Ask States to step in to protect teens in residential programs-- 
   Three years after enactment, the legislation would provide certain Federal grant money to States only if they development their own licensing standards, that are at least strong as national standards, for public and private residential programs for teens and implement a monitoring and enforcement system, including conducting unannounced site inspections of all programs at least once every 2 years. The Department of Health and Human Services would continue to inspect programs where a child fatality has occurred or where a pattern of violations has emerged. 
   This legislation seeks to protect the unprotected--our children--from abuse, neglect and exploitation. Many of these children are not safe, and their futures are uncertain. The groups serving children and adolescents with mental health or substance use conditions need better regulation. The youth boot camps and other ``alternative placement facilities'' should be forced to provide greater transparency as to the policies and practices of their programs. 
   This legislation is a welcomed and needed response to numerous studies documenting the ineffectiveness of these programs and, in several instances, the tragic deaths as a result of child abuse and neglect as reported by the GAO in October 2007. Too many families struggle mightily in nearly every state to find placements, when appropriate, for their children that will address their complex mental health needs. 
   These facilities flourish, in part, because parents lack the necessary information about the operation and practices of these programs. The promise of help cannot be allowed to obscure the fact that these kinds of program are not science-based and have not been forthcoming about the incidence of neglect or abuse. 
   This addresses the challenges facing many families. It seeks relief from these risks by (1) establishing standards for these programs that are consistent with current child protection laws; (2) ensuring that personnel is qualified; (3) shifting these programs to be family-centered, as well as culturally and developmentally appropriate; (4) creating mechanisms for the monitoring and enforcement of these goals; (5) calling for greater transparency and accessibility to the compliance of these standards; and (6) providing grants to states for the prevention of child abuse and neglect and for the treatment of children's mental health or substance use conditions. 
   Additionally, the annual report to Congress is an effective tool in ensuring that these critical issues emerge from the shadows and see the light of day. I share the vision and commitment of Chairman Miller and the Education and Labor Committee in protecting our youth from such predators. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for our children, vote for our families, and vote for H.R. 5876. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GOSPEL MUSIC HERITAGE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the manager of this legislation, Mr. Lacy Clay, and my special appreciation to the chairperson of the full committee, Chairman Waxman. He expressed a great deal of appreciation and sensitivity for this legislation; and to the ranking member, Mr. Tom Davis, to the staff of the committee for their untiring work and dedication, and certainly to the manager on the minority side on this legislation. 
   I am delighted to see a number of Members on the floor of the House, and I am especially appreciative of the gospel singers and advocates who have helped encourage this legislation to move forward. 
   Let me also thank Senator Blanche Lincoln who authored this legislation in the Senate, along with Senator Hutchinson and my cosponsor, Congresswoman Bono Mack. 
   We understand that this Congress has an opportunity on many occasions to celebrate and commemorate important historical cultures of this Nation. Gospel Music Heritage Month is that, for it is not with respect to race, color or creed, or even religion. As I was told by one artist singing in Japan, singing gospel music borne out of the seeds of slavery, that those in Japan were celebrating and clapping to that gospel music.  
   Gospel music has been woven into the fabric of American society for centuries, deeply impacting hundreds of generations, from rock and roll, country, the blues, R&B, and even hip-hop. And so H. Con. Res. 370 designating the month of September is intended to offer to America an opportunity to pause for a moment and be able to celebrate gospel music. 
   According to the Gospel Music Channel, which has been very helpful with this legislation, gospel music sales now account for nearly 8 percent of all music purchased in the United States, selling seven CDs for every 10 purchased in country music. 
   Regardless of their musical styles, artists have turned to gospel music as a source of inspiration for their own music. And we recognize in this legislation a number of those cited, such as Tommy Dorsey, Mahalia Jackson, James Vaughan, Roberta Martin, and many more. And others who got their start through gospel music, Elvis Presley, Marvin Gaye, Aretha Franklin, Buddy Holly, Whitney Houston, Ray Charles, Dolly Parton, Mariah Carey, Bob Dylan, and Randy Travis, to mention a few. 
   We know that Mahalia Jackson reigned as a pioneer interpreter of gospel music, and I know that she will be discussed with great admiration. I loved to hear her sing. 
   And yes, of course, one of our other great and wonderful stars that we have here, the famous James Cleveland, someone that everyone knew, born in Chicago, Illinois, but no one can offer a voice likes James Cleveland, leading choirs, inspiring others, recognizing that choir rehearsals were the cause of the inspiration of music in our churches. As we recognize James Cleveland, we are still reminded of the great work he has done.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GOSPEL MUSIC HERITAGE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. James Cleveland was, of course, the choir director's choir director. It was in one of these rehearsals that James was singing, and he was noticed and made a choir mascot. The choir director, Thomas A. Dorsey, wrote a song for him which launched the career of what was to be a long line of performances. Through Dorsey's teaching and directing, James was influenced in a great way, and James Cleveland became himself, the great teacher, the great choir director, the great musician, and boy, he could move your spirit. James Cleveland will be remembered, and we will be able to celebrate him and his music in this wonderful month. 
   Many of us know the wonderful songstress of Sandi Patty, still bursting with creative energy and magnetic talent three decades into her career. The Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductee with 39 Dove awards, 5 Grammy awards, and an armload of platinum and gold albums has seen professional peaks and personal valleys alike while in the spotlight, all of them tempered by the grace of God. Sandi Patty is one that will be a light as we honor Gospel Music Heritage Month. 
   And then our own hometown girl, Yolanda Adams, who debuted her song, ``Just As I Am'' in the 1980s. I remember sitting on the seats of many churches and seeing Yolanda, a tall, regal young teacher, sing in the choir. And then when she came to her own and began to sing and win all of these awards being reminded of her songs, ``Mountain High ..... Valley Low,'' and of course many other songs that she had sung, winning many awards having that wonderful regal ability to convey her spirit, and particularly her song, ``I need you now.'' 
   Yolanda Adams, along with Mary Mary, Kurt Carr, V. Michael McKay, Kathy Taylor, and many others in and around the State of Texas and elsewhere, are well to be remembered. Brenda Ward, Carl Preacher, and Shirley Joiner, as Gospel greats of BC&S. 
   So many have offered a joy to this Nation. That is why I ask my colleagues to support this resolution celebrating and stopping for a moment in the month of September every year to commemorate gospel music heritage. Remember, it is not a respect of color or creed or religion; it is an opportunity to feel your spirit. So let me ask my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   I thank Mr. Clay for his time. I thank my colleagues.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my legislation, H. Con. Res. 370, Expressing support for designation of September 2008 as ``Gospel Music Heritage Month'' and honoring Gospel music for its valuable and longstanding contributions to the culture of the United States. I am delighted to stand on the floor of the House today to honor, recognize, preserve, and promote the legacy and contributions that Gospel music has made to our society. 
   Gospel music has been woven into the fabric of American society for centuries, deeply impacting hundreds of generations. From rock and roll, country, the blues, R&B, and even hip hop, Gospel's musical roots can be heard throughout many musical genres that we love today. Not only has Gospel music entertained the masses, but its spiritual roots have spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ to millions, giving it the unique ability to minister to souls around the world. 
   It is very important that we recognize and celebrate the vital role Gospel music has played in music history and also in contemporary times. That is why I am so proud of my legislation, H. Con. Res. 370, Designating September as ``Gospel Music Heritage Month.'' This bill recognizes Gospel music's contributions in American culture by celebrating its rich heritage and artists for a full month. I urge my fellow Members of Congress to support this vital legislation. 
   As we know, Gospel music is an American art form that has spanned throughout hundreds of years. Its musical elements can be heard melodiously infused in many genres that we love today. It has grown beyond its roots to achieve pop-culture and historical relevance, touching audiences around the world. According to the Gospel Music Channel, ``Gospel music sales now account for nearly 8 percent of all music purchased in the United States, selling seven CDs for every ten purchased in country music.'' 
   Regardless of their musical styles, artists have turned to Gospel music as the source and inspiration for their own music, which has blurred the boundaries between secular and Gospel music. Gospel music has provided a cultural and musical backdrop across all of mainstream media, from hit television series to major Hollywood motion pictures, including ``American Idol,'' ``Dancing with the Stars,'' ``Sister Act,'' and more. 
   The history of Gospel music can be traced back to African American spirituals that blended diverse elements from traditional African music, folk songs and hymns, and ultimately borrowed from other American musical styles including ragtime, jazz, and blues. Let us not forget that the legacy of Gospel music includes some of the most memorable voices and pioneers in American history, such as Thomas Dorsey, Mahalia Jackson, James Vaughan, Roberta Martin, and many more. Gospel music has paved the way for legendary recording artists such as Elvis Presley, Marvin Gaye, Aretha Franklin, Buddy Holly, Whitney Houston, Ray Charles, Dolly Parton, Mariah Carey, Bob Dylan, and Randy Travis just to name a few. 
   Let us now take a look at some of Gospel's most influential, recognizable artists: 
   Mahalia Jackson reigned as a pioneer interpreter of gospel music whose fervent contralto was one of the great voices of this century. Both gospel and rhythm and blues had their roots in the sanctified church, but whereas blues and R&B departed on secular paths that led to rock and roll, gospel stayed the spiritual course. Nonetheless, the influence of gospel on R&B and rock and roll, especially through such force-of-nature voices as Jackson's, is inescapable. Little Richard has cited Jackson as an inspiration, calling her ``the true queen of spiritual singers.'' 
   No other Christian artist at work today is better suited to sing about life's journey than Sandi Patty. Still bursting with creative energy and magnetic talent three decades into her career, the Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductee with 39 Dove Awards, five Grammy Awards, and an armload of platinum and gold albums has seen professional peaks and personal valleys alike while in the spotlight, all of them tempered by the grace of God. 
   The Winans are a contemporary Christian music group formed by four brothers, Marvin, Carvin, Ronald and Michael Winans, from Detroit, Michigan, USA. The family has additionally produced two well-known solo/duo gospel performers, BeBe and CeCe Winans. After having sung in gospel choirs all their lives the brothers began their professional career in the early 80s. Staying close to their gospel roots but always maintaining a distinctive, jazzy sound, their reputation saw them work and perform with leading artists including Vanessa Bell Armstrong, Anita Baker and Michael McDonald, the latter pair both appearing on their 1987 album, Decision. Their two QWest albums of the early 90s, Return and All Out, saw the Winans attempt to convert their popularity into mainstream R&B success. Even this,  however, was motivated by moral concerns: ``The whole purpose was to win over young people who might have been on the verge of going into a life of crime or going off track,'' Ronald Winans told Billboard magazine in 1995. 
   Ever since her late-80s debut Just As I Am, Yolanda Adams has triumphantly carried the torch for contemporary gospel and inspirational music via 12 glorious albums. Stunningly beautiful, exceptionally educated, filled with the spirit and blessed with one of the most powerful voices in any genre of music, this Houston-native and one-time school teacher has been a stately beacon of God's light, earning numerous accolades and awards for her shining efforts; including the first American Music Award for Contemporary Gospel Artist, four Gospel Music Association Dove Awards and four National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences Grammy  Awards (including 1999's Best Contemporary Soul Gospel Album for Mountain High ..... Valley Low which featured her secular breakthrough hit ``Open My Heart,'' and 2005's Best Gospel Song for ``Be Blessed,'' for which she was a co-writer). 
   Since his debut, 1993's Kirk Franklin & the Family, Kirk Franklin has been one of the brightest stars in contemporary gospel music. The album spent 100 weeks on the gospel charts (some of those on top), crossed over to the R&B charts, and became the first gospel debut album to go platinum. His second album, Kirk Franklin & the Family Christmas, became the genre's first Christmas album to make it to number one, and his 1996 album Whatcha Lookin' 4 went gold as soon as it was distributed. With such phenomenal success, it is small wonder that some have hailed him ``the Garth Brooks of gospel.'' Still, despite all the adulation and brouhaha, Franklin remains a humble, devout Christian, eschewing the title ``entertainer'' in favor of labeling himself as just a ``church boy.'' 
   The Reverend James Cleveland was born in Chicago, Illinois, on December 5, 1931, to Rosie Lee and Benjamin Cleveland during the height of the 
   greatest depression. James' grandmother attended Pilgrim Baptist Church, where she was a member of the choir. James had no choice but to attend these rehearsals with his grandmother and found himself sitting through these choir rehearsals--bored stiff! Eventually James decided he would conquer the boredom through attempting to sing along with the choir. It was in one of these rehearsals that James' singing was noticed and he was made choir mascot. The choir director, Thomas A. Dorsey wrote a song for him which launched the career of what was to be a long line of performances. Through Dorsey's teaching and directing young James was influenced in a great way. Reverend Cleveland will never be forgotten as one of the world's foremost leaders and pioneers of gospel music and his gospel music ministry will live on. Literally every black gospel artist today has been influenced by James Cleveland. 
   It's not hard to divide the world of Gospel quartet music into categories. In fact, there are really only two. There's the Mighty Clouds of Joy, and then there's everybody else. After 44 years and 35 albums, three Grammys and trophy-case full of almost every award imaginable; shows that have run a gamut from the church-house to the White House, and top-billings with a dazzling roster of superstar artists from nearly every genre of popular music (the Rolling Stones, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, Earth, Wind & Fire, Luther Vandross, Ray Charles, and Paul Simon are but a few), The Mighty Clouds of Joy are more than a Gospel legend. They are nothing less than a national treasure. Still, one must choose his words carefully when describing the Clouds. ``Icons?'' Absolutely. ``Pioneers?'' Without a doubt. ``Venerable?'' Most certainly. ``Forefathers'' of modern Gospel, R&B, rock and pop? It's just the straight fact of the matter; but don't let founding member and lead vocalist, Joe Ligon, or any of the other five Clouds hear you referring to them with any synonym that even hints at greatness in the past tense. 
   Perhaps the most interesting story in modern Gospel music over the past few years has been the emergence from nowhere of Smokie Norful. Virtually unheard of when he released his debut album, I Need You Now, in early 2002, Norful became Billboard Magazine's #1 Gospel Artist of 2003 and also won the coveted 2003 Stellar Awards for both Best Male Vocalist and Best New Artist. It is encouraging to find new artists like Norful that are blending the rhythms and production quality of modern soul with the lyrical depth of modern Gospel. It also is encouraging that Urban Adult Contemporary radio was willing to embrace an obviously spiritual song such as ``I Need You Now.'' And while great Gospel artists such as Mary Mary and even Yolanda Adams had difficulty finding continuing broad crossover sales following their smash 2000 albums, fans of quality Soul will continue to hope that strong future material by artists such as Smokie Norful will lead to sustained mainstream success for spiritual music. 
   Let me speak now, of some Gospel music that is particularly important to me: The Soul Stirrers, formed by Roy Crain in 1926, which became one of the most popular and influential gospel groups of the 20th Century and was the first Gospel group inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; Joe Ligon and The Mighty Clouds of Joy, another quartet that got their start here in Houston; Don Robey's Peacock Records, which in its 1960s' gospel heyday, featured such artists as The Dixie Hummingbirds, Rev. Cleophus Robinson, The Loving Sisters and with its subsidiary label, Song Bird Records, released recordings from the legendary Inez Andrews and other Gospel Greats; BC&S (Brenda Waters, Carl Preacher & Shirley Joiner), the nucleus of what would become Southeast Inspirational Choir, the vehicle that launched the prolific solo career of Yolanda Adams; V. Michael McKay, one of the most prolific songwriters of our time, with songs like The Potter's House, The Battle is the Lord's, and Broken, But I'm Healed; Kathy Taylor, whose anointed voice is heard from the sanctuary of Windsor Village to places all around the world; Kirk Franklin, who in a decade brought Gospel Music out of the Church and back into the streets of the young people of America and the world, while revolutionizing the genre in the process; Kurt Carr, whose artistry demands the attention of the world, while at the same time, the heart of God ..... 
   Psalm 150 states: ``Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heaven! Praise him for his mighty works; praise his unequaled greatness! Praise him with a blast of the ram's horn; praise him with the lyre and harp! Praise him with the tambourine and dancing; praise him with strings and flutes! Praise him with a clash of cymbals; praise him with loud clanging cymbals. Let everything that breathes sing praises to the Lord!'' 
   Praising the Lord is at the core of Gospel music and today we honor the many Gospel musicians who have dedicated their lives to praising the Lord. Their messages of faith, hope, and wisdom continue to encourage in times of hardship, and express joy in times of prosperity. Gospel musicians use their talents to motivate listeners to live positive life styles grounded in love, patience, goodness, kindness, self-control, gentleness, peace, and joy; all of which we know as the Fruit of the Spirit. 
   Today, Gospel music has a vast audience around the country and around the world. This is a testament to the universal appeal of a historical American art form that both inspires and entertains across racial, ethnic, religious, and geographic boundaries. 
   Without a doubt, Gospel music deserves national recognition and I urge my colleagues to expediently pass this vital piece of legislation. By supporting H. Con. Res. 370, the Members of Congress will finally honor the great contributions of Gospel music artists of the yesteryears and years to come. Let us recognize the significant cultural contributions of Gospel music to the fabric that weaves together the patchwork of American society, by designating September as ``Gospel Music Heritage Month.'' I am grateful for the help of the Gospel Music Channel, the Grammys and my Gospel artists. I also appreciate the work of Gospel Music advocate Carl Davis. 
   I would like to thank Senator Blanche Lincoln for her great leadership in the Senate in getting this resolution passed. I am proud to support H. Con. Res. 370 and to provide Congressional support for the designation of ``Gospel Music Heritage Month'' which would recognize the contributions to the culture of the United States derived from the rich heritage of Gospel music and Gospel music artists. I strongly urge all my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and the convener of this Special Order. Let me thank the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, recognize that 43 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, 42 Members in the House, represent a basic conscience that has to craft for America the next steps. 
   I want to thank my good friend, Congressman DANNY DAVIS. He has been persistent in recognizing that there has to be a second chance. And I'm glad to join my colleague and my champion, my fellow champion of human rights, BARBARA LEE. 
   Let me also thank Congressman JOHN CONYERS, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; the subcommittee Chair, BOBBY SCOTT. We worked very hard on this legislation as it was crafted by the authors and the staff to make sure this legislation started to move. 
   Congresswoman TUBBS JONES, I'm very glad that you raised the question of National Bible Week. As I listened to my colleagues give extremely personal stories of their life, let me say, as someone who represents an inner-city district and has spent much of her political life as much as her personal life in churches, as a Seventh-day Adventist, we are committed to the teachings of the Old and New Testament. 
   But in many different faith communities, I recognize that the Bible is one vessel, one language that speaks to the language of the Good Samaritan. Many other religious documents speak to it, but it speaks about taking care of our fellow brothers and sisters. And it's a story that I love, on the road to Jericho, on the road that addresses the question of helping others. That is what the Second Chance bill is all about.  
   And I just want to cite that it is designed to reduce recidivism, increase public safety, and help State and local governments better address the growing population of ex-offenders returning to their communities. I see them every day in my community. 
   The bill focuses on four areas: development and support of programs that provide alternatives to incarceration, expansion of the availability of substance abuse treatment, strengthening families, and the expansion of comprehensive re-entry services. And we held a series of hearings. 
   But as we talked about National Bible Week upcoming, this is a wonderful partnership between faith organizations for people to show their faith and helping people restore their lives. 
   I come from the State of Texas. In Texas, there are now 101,916 adults on parole, and there are 430,312 adults on probation; almost a congressional district. 
   At the same time you, we have a number of individuals by race. We see that out of that in Texas there are 40,000, almost, African Americans who are on parole and some 25,000 Hispanics. This speaks to the crisis nature of what we are facing. 
   And so I rise today to plead with my colleagues that one, the Second Chance bill must move through this House. In the Senate we understand that we are now prepared possibly for a final conclusion for this to get to the President's desk. 
   But I speak from the heart when I talk about the importance of the second chance. Unfortunately, Jena Six and that situation, it has become a symbol for not giving young people a second chance. For the altercation that occurred, a school yard fight, it resulted in an indictment that resulted in adult time. 
   In the State of Texas, we are notorious for what we do for our young people; therefore, creating adults who will ultimately be incarcerated, and those will be on parole. And so, it is important that we understand the crucialness, if you will, of this particular bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRATULATING THE PEOPLE OF ETHIOPIA ON ETHIOPIA'S SECOND MILLENNIUM -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 550, congratulating the people of Ethiopia on the second millennium of Ethiopia, and for other purposes, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative MICHAEL HONDA. This important legislation recognizes the significant efforts made by the government of Ethiopia to move forward in peace and stability, and it encourages our continued relationship. 
   Ethiopia is currently on the road to democracy. This is a path that should be paved with civil and political discourse, peaceful transitions of power, and respect for human rights. By necessity, the achievement of a modern democracy requires the implementation of electoral reforms, the separation of powers in the government, and the establishment of a truly independent judiciary. These are the founding principles of our American Republic, and I have seen firsthand the progress on the path to democracy Ethiopia has made since the brutal dictatorship of Mengistu Haile Mariam was brought down in 1991. I strongly believe that the United States should do all it can to support this transition, including bolstering civil society and speaking out when fundamental human rights are violated. 
   Ethiopia has a long and proud history. It is the cradle of mankind, as illustrated by Lucy, also known as Dinkinesh (Amharic for ``you are wonderful''), which is the nearly complete hominid skeleton discovered by archaeologists in the Awash Valley of Ethiopia on November 30, 1974. Lucy is estimated to have lived 3.2 million years ago and has redefined science's understanding of human evolution. I was happy to work with Texas State Senator Rodney Ellis, Ethiopian Ambassador Samuel Assefa, and the Houston Museum of Natural Science to bring Lucy to Houston, which is one of only nine American cities and the only city in Texas to host the exhibit. The bones are currently on display in Houston, and will be until April 2008. 
   Ethiopia is also the oldest independent nation in Africa, has never been colonized, and is home to the African Union. Despite Ethiopia's rich history, however, recent decades have brought hardship and suffering to Ethiopia's people, through military conflict, natural disasters, and a military dictatorship. 
   For over a decade in the House of Representatives, and prior to that in the Houston city council, I have been an outspoken and unwavering advocate for the country of Ethiopia and its people, both in Ethiopia and in the diaspora. Following in the legendary footsteps of my predecessor, Mickey Leland, who died attempting to alleviate the starvation faced by Ethiopia's innocent populace, I have been a champion of increasing foreign aid to, political, economic, and social cooperation with, and improving human rights in Ethiopia.  
   Mr. Speaker, I believe this legislation is extremely important in encouraging the progressive strides of the government of Ethiopia. This legislation not only congratulates the people of Ethiopia on Ethiopia's second millennium and their long and rich history, but also commends Ethiopia's contribution to peace and stability on the African continent through its role in the creation of the Organization of African Unity. It further recognizes the longstanding Ethiopia-U.S. relationship and commends the organizers of the second millennium celebrations both in Ethiopia and the United States. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE FARM BILL -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, it's a pleasure to be able to address my colleagues, and thank you for your leadership as well. 
   Madam Speaker, I wanted to speak this evening on the legislation that is before this House that takes a completely new turn in farming and the agricultural agenda for this Nation, and there are certain elements that I would like to highlight. 
   When you think of an agricultural bill, you think immediately of farms and ranches, particularly of large size, almost a large conglomerate of a series of farms that provide the food engine for America. But this bill draws my attention and support because of the number of other elements and turns and new directions that this legislation takes. 
   It's important to note that this bill has a new definition, one of nutrition. This bill reauthorizes nutrition programs, accounting for two-thirds of the bill's funding to help low-income families in need, including the food stamp program that keeps many Americans from going hungry. The bill increases the minimum benefit under the food stamp program for the first time in 30 years. 
   Just this past week, Madam Speaker, we announced the increase in the minimum wage, the first time in 10 years. One of the greatest tragedies here in this most powerful Nation and powerfully economic Nation is the number of people in America that go to bed hungry. The greatest disaster of that is that a huge percentage happen to be children. 
   This bill eliminates the current gap on child care costs to help the working poor meet rising costs. In addition, it nearly doubles the fund for emergency food assistance programs and expands the fresh fruit and vegetable snack program to all 50 States. 
   This bill focuses on an expanded view of nutrition and, in fact, increases the spending for nutrition by billions of dollars and expands the feeding of children by millions of dollars, but yet, it focuses on the family farmer and provides them with a resource base in order for those family farmers to survive. 
   I also applaud the fact that struggling, socially disadvantaged, and African American families who have farmed over the years and were abused under the United States Department of Agriculture and suffered, in fact, in a lineage of discrimination now will have a remedy, now will have recourse to a number of sections in this legislation that addresses the inequity of the treatment of black farmers, a number of extensions and protections that will make them whole after years of devastating, if you will, treatment by the United States Department of Agriculture. 
   I want to acknowledge the Agriculture Committee, the bipartisan work that they did, the chairman and the ranking member, Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Goodlatte, on recognizing the work of the members of the Congressional Black Caucus that worked so very hard and the members of the committee that included David Scott and included the task force, Benny Thompson and G.K. Butterfield and a number of others that continued to work on this issue. 
   I had an amendment that I hoped to continue to address and that was to address the question environmentally of increasing the conservation fund for African American socially disadvantaged farmers. We still need to move in a direction of increasing the ability to, if you will, draw out of a dry arid land farming land or ranching land a survivable farm or ranch. I will continue to work on that issue. Even though that amendment was not made in order, I believe it's an issue that is crucial to continue the support and build a family farming system here in America that is still valuable and worth saving. 
   I do have an amendment that focuses on school lunches and school breakfasts, an issue in my district. Large corporations are now serving the Nation's schools for children who sometimes get no other meal other than school breakfast and school lunch. We're going to stand on the floor of the House and debate the question that it is the sense of this Congress to ensure that these lunches are nutritional, that they don't increase juvenile obesity, for we see a number of our children being overweight because of the food or lack of food that they have. 
   One other point as I close is simply to say the importance of alternative fuel is also counted in this legislation. 
   Overall, this legislation takes a new direction for America, an agricultural  agenda, and I look forward to debating my amendment tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the distinguished chair. 
   Let me first of all, as I bring my amendment to the attention of my colleagues, thank the chairman of the subcommittee Mr. Mollohan, and the ranking member of the subcommittee Mr. Frelinghuysen, for your leadership on a number of these issues of which I will discuss today. 
   Let me, first of all, acknowledge the Department of Justice funding, particularly the State and local law enforcement and crime prevention grants and the COPS program, of which many of us have supported for an extensive period of time. 
   I rose to the floor of the House yesterday and indicated that I believe that the father of community-oriented policing was both the mayor and chief of police in my city of Houston, Lee P. Brown, who served as the chief of police in New York and Atlanta. 
   I rise today to emphasize for my colleagues the importance of providing resources to public safety officers so that they can provide the service to the community in this increasing period of rising crime statistics, and let me share with you the vastness of the public safety officers' responsibility. 
   What I want to suggest in this amendment is that public safety officers are needed in schools. They're needed on the highways. They're needed in our neighborhoods. They're needed on our buses and our trains. Many times incidences will occur on our trains and buses with citizens who are using those facilities, and the quick response of public safety officers can lead to the saving of lives. That is why it is important for them to have appropriate commitment and the appropriate equipment. 
   Let me cite in my own community, which we're seeing statistically across the Nation, having just heard the FBI report that says crime statistics are increasing all over America, not only in the urban centers like Houston, which is the fourth largest city in the Nation, but it is also increasing in our rural hamlets and villages and farmlands. We have a crisis in crime. Part of it has been because we have not provided, I think, the extra resources that we see in this bill. 
   But let me just cite for you why people traveling on transportation need the quick access of a public safety officer. One article says, a second metro bus driver attacked. Two men attacked a metro bus driver Tuesday after they argued with her about a fare. That means all of those riding the bus were in jeopardy. A quick response by a public safety officer was clearly a need. 
   And so my amendment is simple. It provides for the reemphasis of the need of this equipment, whether they are walkie-talkies and others, to ensure that we have safety, and as well to ensure that these dollars are used effectively for safety in our community. 
   I'd ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to explain my amendment to H.R. 3093. My amendment is simple. It seeks to assist public safety officials in the United States in communicating with one another across jurisdictions and disciplines, to enhance the public's safety and prevent unnecessary loss of lives and property. 
   My amendment recognizes immense importance of hand-held communication devices to the transit workers and other public officials who play a key role in responding to disasters and terrorist attacks. It seeks to ensure that they may be provided with fully interoperable equipment, maximizing their effectiveness and working to ensure their safety as they work to protect our communities. 
   Throughout the United States, public safety agencies--law enforcement, fire fighters, emergency technicians, public health officials, and others--often cannot communicate effectively with one another, even within the same jurisdiction, or with other public safety agencies at the Federal, State, or local level, when responding to emergencies. 
   As a senior Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I have worked tirelessly to ensure that our communities' first responders are equipped with the best possible equipment, including communication devices that allow them to effectively communicate with each other and with their Federal counterparts across jurisdictions and disciplines. Interoperable communications would allow our Nation's first responders to communicate in real time, in the event of an emergency. 
   Mr. Chairman, the lack of sufficient hand-held communications devises may have contributed to the deaths of 343 firefighters in New York City on September 11, 2001, when police could not communicate effectively with firefighters prior to the collapse of the Twin Towers. Similarly, the lack of adequate equipment exacerbated the difficulties in evacuating people during hurricane Katrina, where many could have been 
   saved if effective communications equipments were available not only to safety workers but to transit authorities and others in a collective effort to save the lives of those who were stranded and injured that tragic day. 
   Recent national catastrophes, including the terrorist attacks of September 11th and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, clearly illustrate the need to ensure that safety responders have interoperable communications systems. Emergency response systems must be able to function under extreme and unpredictable conditions. We can learn from our past that when those responding to emergencies cannot communicate effectively, the danger to public safety officials and the public increases. 
   The Department of Homeland Security has recognized the importance of providing effective and real-time communication capabilities. Secretary Chertoff stated in November 2006 his intention to make sure that major cities ``have interoperable communications in effect by the end of this coming year.'' Interoperable communications provide tangible benefits to places like my home City of Houston, with its 5.3 million residents and concentration of critical infrastructure. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment simply aims to ensure that high risk areas, like Houston, have sufficient communications devices to enable our Nation's first responders and transit workers to communicate in real time, in the event of an emergency. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.   
   Second Metro Bus Driver Attacked  
   Two men attacked a Metro bus driver Tuesday after they argued with her about the fare, making it the second attack this week of a female driver. 
   The men, who appeared to be inebriated, got into a dispute with the driver over fares and threatened her, said Metro spokeswoman Raequel Roberts. The men initially retreated into the bus, but about 10 minutes later, they returned to the front and punched her, Roberts said. 
   The driver was taken to Memorial Southwest hospital, where she was treated for a cut on her nose, Roberts said. 
   Some passengers on the bus took pictures of the two men with their cell phones, and Metro police are now looking for the suspects, Roberts said. 
   The assault took place on the same bus route and in the same area as the reported robbery and sexual assault of a Metro bus driver early Sunday. 
   In that case, a man boarded a Metro bus on Hillcroft at Bellaire and remained on board for several miles, waiting for the last passenger to exit before dragging the driver to the back of the bus and assaulting her at gunpoint, Metro officials said. 
   According to statistics provided by Metro, 28 violent crimes--ranging from robberies to aggravated assaults--occurred so far this year on their buses. Last year, 50 violent crimes were reported on Metro buses, up from 38 in 2005. 
   Roberts said Metro has increased security patrols in the area as they search for the attackers. 
   ``We've been out there with officers in force,'' she said.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Reclaiming my time, I'd like to thank the distinguished gentleman and the ranking member. 
   And let me just say to all those individuals impacted by crime, particularly these bus drivers that I'm speaking of today, help is on the way. 
   I ask for support of my amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me also thank the chairman and ranking member for their infusion of dollars in the Federal prison system, $179 million above 2007. 
   There needs to be an infusion of funding because we have an overcrowded system in the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We, as the authorizing committee, the Committee on the Judiciary, have heard repeatedly of the concerns of both the management of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, but also the inmates. I have visited institutions in my own area. I've seen the overcrowding. I've seen the conditions and paid attention to some of the elements that we could improve. 
   Many may hear this debate and suggest that incarcerated persons should be treated in a certain way. This is a very simple amendment. It asks for a study to look at the possibilities of early release for nonviolent prisoners who are over the age of 45. 
   How does that help our community? One, it sends individuals back home to their families to provide resources. We know that we are watching a second chance bill make its way through this Congress. We hope that it will move quickly. Many of these offenders are middle age. Many of them are sick. This costs a great deal for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. 
   It is noted that 1.1 million nonviolent offenders are currently locked up. Many of them are African Americans, and in the 1930s, 75 percent of the people entering State and Federal prison were of the majority population. That is not the case now. 
   So it's a simple premise. It has been adopted in the authorization bill. It asks the hard question, why are we incarcerating for decades and decades nonviolent individuals who pay their debt to society, when they could come out and provide the comfort and nurturing and financial support to their own families and also address the question of Federal prison overcrowding? 
   I'd ask my colleagues to support it.  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman for this opportunity to explain my amendment. My amendment provides for the early release for non-violent offenders who have attained the age of at least 45 years of age, have never been convicted of a violent crime, have never escaped or attempted to escape from incarceration, and have not engaged in any violation, involving violent conduct, of institutional disciplinary regulations. 
   My amendment seeks to ensure that in affording offenders a second chance to turn around their lives and contribute to society, ex-offenders are not too old to take advantage of a second chance to redeem themselves. A secondary benefit of my amendment is that it would relieve some of the strain on federal, state, and local government budgets by reducing considerably government expenditures on warehousing prisoners. 
   Mr. Chairman, some of those who are incarcerated face extremely long sentences, and this language would help to address this problem. Releasing rehabilitated, middle-aged, non-violent offenders from an already overcrowded prison population can be a win-win situation for society and the individual who, like the Jean Valjean made famous in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables, is redeemed by the grace of a second chance. The reentry of such individuals into the society will enable them to repay the community through community service and obtain or regain a sense of self-worth and accomplishment. It promises a reduction in burdens to the taxpayer, and an affirmation of the American value that no non-violent offender is beyond redemption. 
   Mr. Chairman, the number of federal inmates has grown from just over 24,000 in 1980 to 173,739 in 2004. The cost to incarcerate these individuals has risen from $330 million to $4.6 billion since 2004. 
   At a time when tight budgets have forced many states to consider the early release of hundreds of inmates to conserve tax revenue and when our nation's Social Security system is in danger of being totally privatized, early release is a common-sense option to raise capital. 
   The rate of incarceration and the length of sentence for first-time, non-violent offenders have become extreme. Over the past two decades, no area of state government expenditures has increased as rapidly as prisons and jails. According to data collected by the Justice Department, the number of prisoners in America has more than tripled over the last two decades from 500,000 to 1.8 million, with states like California and Texas experiencing eightfold prison population increases during that time. Mr. Chairman, there are more people in the prisons of America than there are residents in states of Alaska, North Dakota, and Wyoming combined. 
   Over one million people have been warehoused for nonviolent, often petty crimes. The European Union, with a population of 370 million, has one-sixth the number of incarcerated persons as we do, and that includes violent and nonviolent offenders. This is one third the number of prisoners which America, a country with 70 million fewer people, incarcerates for nonviolent offenses. 
   The 1.1 million nonviolent offenders we currently lock up represents five times the number of people held in India's entire prison system, even though its population is four times greater than the United States. 
   As the number of individuals incarcerated for nonviolent offenses has steadily risen, African-Americans and Latinos have comprised a growing percentage of the overall number incarcerated. In the 1930s, 75% of the people entering state and federal prison were white (roughly reflecting the demographics of the nation). Today, minority communities represent 70% of all new admissions--and more than half of all Americans behind bars. 
   This is why for the last several years I have introduced the Federal Prison Bureau Nonviolent Offender Relief Act. The bill I introduced earlier this year, H.R. 261, forms the basis for the present amendment. 
   Over 2 million offenders are incarcerated in the nation's prisons and jails. At midyear 2002, 665,475 inmates were held in the Nation's local jails, up from 631,240 at midyear 2001. Projections indicate that the inmate population will unfortunately continue to rise over the years to come. 
   To illustrate the impact that this amendment will potentially have on Texas, the Federal prison population for the years 2000, 2001, and 2002 reached 39,679, 36,138, and 36,635 persons respectively; the State prison population for the same years reached 20,200, 20,898, and 23,561 persons. These numbers have grown since 2002, so the impact is indeed significant and the State of Texas is an important stakeholder. 
   As I stated at the outset, my amendment will ensure that in affording offenders a second chance to turn around their lives and contribute to society, ex-offenders are not too old to take advantage of a second chance to redeem themselves. My amendment will also relieve the some of the strain on federal, state, and local government budgets by reducing considerably government expenditures on warehousing prisoners. 
   For these reasons, I ask that all members to support my amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairman, and I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. This will go a long way to this very strong and harsh question of Federal prison overcrowding and how  we use our resources for nonviolent prisoners. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the Chair, and again, I thank the chairman and ranking member of this subcommittee. Let me also add my appreciation to the appropriators and the chair and ranking member of the full committee. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also want to acknowledge the hard work of the Science Committee. I had the pleasure of serving on that committee for almost 12 years. My issue there was the question of safety during the tenure that I was in that role or a member of that committee. Of course, we had the backdrop of Challenger and then Columbia. 
   Safety is a crucial component to the continued support of Americans of the international space station and America's space program. When I have an annual Christmas party in Houston, the most popular visitor is not Santa Claus. For children, it is the astronauts, and I rise today to offer an amendment that will reinforce the importance of safety in the NASA program. 
   Space exploration remains a part of our national destiny. After the Columbia disaster, NASA stands at a pivotal moment in its history. It is the responsibility of this Congress to ensure that the future of NASA is one of continued progress. I have long been an advocate of space exploration, and I have steadfastly emphasized that while safety must be the number one priority of NASA, this should not deter us from pushing the boundaries of technology and discovery. 
   In June of this year, we saw the space shuttle Atlantis and the international space station both experience serious safety scares. The shuttle's mission had to be extended following the discovery of a rip in the shuttle's thermal blanket, while the space station experienced the failure of a Russian-operated computer system controlling a crucial portion of the station's navigational system. These recent incidents clearly indicate the need for improved safety standards and oversight. Space exploration must be coupled with satisfactory safety assurances. 
   The amendment, Mr. Chairman, that I offer refers to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act signed into law by President Bush, which provided for the establishment of an International Space Station Independent Safety Commission, that I authored, to discover and assess any vulnerabilities of the international space station that could lead to its destruction, compromise the health of its crew, or necessitate its premature abandonment. 
   We will launch on August 7. That launch will head to the international space station. People will be on that international space station, which is the ultimate goal, that scientists will find the place in space to be able to do the research that will carry America forward. 
   That safety task force provided valuable observations on the strengths and weaknesses of the international space station safety systems. It went on to say that we should have strong congressional support for the space shuttle and international space station, as well as a number of specific technical recommendations, such as increased attention to orbital debris and ensuring that all personnel and managers have the necessary skills and experience. 
   If these recommendations are to be successful in identifying and mitigating future risks, then we must have a Congress that reinforces safety for NASA.     
   We shouldn't have the individual there who is afraid to speak up. We should have whistleblower protection. And we should have a director who cares about safety and does not reject Congress' interest in safety. 
   I hope that we will keep our eye on this international space station commission on safety, even though its report is in, to ensure that the individuals we sent on the space shuttle, the work that we are doing on space has the element of safety to save lives and create the opportunity for men and women to live and work in space. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this amendment as we support NASA and my appreciation for the funding that is in this bill for NASA and aeronautics and research and ask my colleagues that NASA should equate to safety, NASA should equate to science. That is an important aspect.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of this amendment. It states that none of the funds made available in this Act may be used to limit the safety provisions enumerated in the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law No. 109-155), particularly those regarding the International Space Station Independent Safety Commission. 
   Space exploration remains a part of our national destiny. After the Columbia disaster, NASA stands at a pivotal moment in its history. It is the responsibility of this Congress to ensure that the future of NASA is one of continued progress. I have long been an advocate of space exploration, and I have steadfastly emphasized that while safety must be the number one priority of NASA, this should not deter us from pushing the boundaries of technology and discovery. 
   In June of this year, we saw the Space Shuttle Atlantis and the International Space Station both experience serious safety scares. The shuttle's mission had to be extended following the discovery of a rip in the shuttle's thermal blanket, while the space station experienced the failure of a Russian-operated computer system controlling a crucial portion of the station's navigational system. These recent incidents clearly indicate the need for improved safety standards and oversight. Space exploration must be coupled with satisfactory safety assurances. 
   Mr. Chairman, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2005, signed into law by President Bush, provided for the establishment of an International Space Station Independent Safety Commission, to discover and assess any vulnerabilities of the International Space Station that could lead to its destruction, compromise the health of its crew, or necessitate its premature abandonment. 
   This congressionally mandated International Space Station Independent Safety Task Force offered its recommendations in the form of a final report, which was submitted to NASA and the United States Congress in February of 2007. This report offered a number of valuable observations on the strengths and weaknesses of the International Space Station's safety systems, and it went on to make several important recommendations. The report called for strong congressional support for Space Shuttle and International Space Station, as well as a number of specific technical 
   recommendations, such as increased attention to orbital debris and ensuring that all personnel and managers have the necessary skills and experience. 
   If these recommendations are to be successful in identifying and mitigating future risks to the International Space Station, Congress, together with the Administration, must firmly reaffirm its commitment to pursuing safety as a top priority. My amendment speaks to this clear need to emphasize the importance of safety standards by ensuring that none of the funds made available in this Act may be used to limit the safety provisions enumerated in the recent NASA Authorization Act. 
   We must continue to work to ensure that adequate safety standards apply to all NASA endeavors, and particularly to manned space exploration. As I previously stated, I am a strong supporter of the International Space Station, and I hope that we can move forward with its mission. However, our mission for discovery can not be done in haste; instead we must ensure that all steps have been taken to minimize the risk to astronauts onboard.  
   I hope that my colleagues will join me in supporting this important amendment.  
   U.S. and Russia View Space Station Safety Differently  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman for his courtesy, I thank the ranking member, and I thank the Congress for accepting the importance of safety as we explore the beyond. 
   I simply say thank you to the staff of these committees, and I ask my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOPE VI AND DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, yesterday we revisited the question of the Defense Authorization bill. I think it is important to remind my colleagues that in our appropriations bill that was passed and signed by the President, we took care of a number of issues dealing with our soldiers, including an increase in their compensation, including a recognition of traumatic brain injury, and a number of other concerns. 
   This bill yesterday was a disappointment because it continued to include money for Iraq, and it is time to bring our soldiers home. 
   I also want to commend the debate today on HOPE VI, another issue that addresses the issue of homelessness and those who are without homes. This legislation was provocative and important because it is an economic stimulus when you provide housing for those in public housing who cannot be housed. 
   It is innovative because it suggests we should have green buildings, meaning more efficient, and it is innovative because it protects the elderly who may have those young people in their homes who have had some run-in with the law, that those individuals go but not the elderly who would be evicted. 
   This is a good piece of legislation. I supported HOPE VI. I am disappointed I could not support the Defense Authorization bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOPE VI IMPROVEMENT AND REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 3524, to reauthorize the ``HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2007,'' introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Maxine Waters. This important legislation will reauthorize and make changes to the HOPE VI public housing revitalization program. I would like to thank Congresswoman Waters for her consistent and dedicated work on this important issue, as well as to commend Chairman Frank for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
   Madam Chairman, this legislation reauthorizes, with important changes, the HOPE VI public housing revitalization program. Among other provisions, it provides for the retention of public housing units, protects residents from disruptions resulting from the grant, increases resident involvement, and improves the efficiency and expediency of construction. The HOPE VI program, created in 1992, has worked to improve the Nation's most dilapidated public housing units by providing much needed resources to public housing agencies. These funds have directly benefited countless Americans, particularly the elderly and those with disabilities, partnering with local agencies to improve conditions in public housing units and communities. 
   In December, we were reminded of the existing problems in our Nation's public housing systems when protesters in New Orleans skirmished with police in New Orleans, as the City 
   Council unanimously voted to destroy 4,500 public housing units. I was appalled that, in the holiday season, the citizens of New Orleans and survivors of Hurricane Katrina were put in a position in which they had to fight to keep a roof over their heads. The residents of New Orleans who saw their homes and livelihoods destroyed by natural disaster two years ago are far from alone in their need for improved public housing; citizens across the country are feeling the acute need for the housing reform delivered by this bill. 
   My home city of Houston faces unique challenges and opportunities. One of the most important of which is dealing with the impact of taking in nearly 200,000 Hurricane Katrina evacuees, an unprecedented act of generosity for which Houston is famous. According to the 2000 U.S. Census, nearly 2 million people live in Houston, the fourth largest city in America. When the metropolitan area is taken into account, the population swells to approximately 5.2 million. The Houston metropolitan grew in population by more than 950,000 people between 1990 and 2000. 
   Madam Chairman, according to the American Community Survey (ACS) conducted by the Census Bureau, there are 859,245 total housing units in the City of Houston, of which 748,323 are occupied--347,865 are occupied by owners (2.5 percent vacancy rate) and 400,458 by renters (11.8 percent vacancy rate). Though the average cost of housing and rent in Houston is low by national standards, Houston residents still face a problem when it comes to affordable housing. According to a 2006 study by the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies, 28.4 percent of Houston homeowners and 51 percent of renters in the Houston metropolitan area spend more than 30 percent of their monthly pre-tax income on housing costs. This makes them ``housing-cost burdened'' as defined by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). 
   Fully a quarter of Houston renters are ``severely housing-cost burdened,'' meaning they pay more than 50 percent of their income in housing costs. The National Low Income Housing Coalition, in its report Out of Reach in 2006, estimates that in order to afford a 
   2-bedroom apartment at the FMR, a renter would have to earn $14.77 an hour, more than two and on-half times the minimum wage. 
   The affordability crisis is most pronounced among Houston's poorest and disabled households. Among the 83,367 renter households in Houston with incomes below 30 percent of the Area Median Income (AMI)--or approximately $18,500 in the Houston metropolitan area--more than half, 56 percent, of them spend more than half of their gross income on housing. Another 1 in 6 devotes more than 30 percent of their gross income for housing. 
   Moreover, there is little federally subsidized housing available to those in need. The Housing Authority's waiting list for Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers now has been closed for three years and there are still more than 10,000 people on the list. The average wait time is between 18 months and two years. It is estimated that more than 12,000 people are homeless on any given night in Houston: 6,583 of them are unsheltered and 3,600 of them are chronically homeless. 
   Madam Chairman, I support this legislation because it will begin to address the serious  housing problems we face in our own local communities, and as a nation. Among its many important provisions, this legislation requires that all public housing units proposed for demolition be replaced on a one-to-one basis, guaranteeing the total availability of public housing. This requirement will serve to protect low income residents under fair housing laws. Further, a mixed-income housing development must be provided on the site of the original public housing location and all replacement housing units must be located in a mixed-income community. The bill requires a third of the units in this development must be public housing units, with limited exceptions. Public housing agencies can build additional units on the site provided the provision of these units does not violate fair housing laws and the number of additional units is determined in consultation with residents, community leaders, and local government officials. Remaining units must be built in the 
   jurisdiction of the public housing agency in low poverty areas and in a manner that affirmatively furthers fair housing. 
   The bill provides displaced residents with three housing choices: (a) a revitalized unit on the site of the original public housing location; (b) a revitalized unit in the jurisdiction of the public housing agency; or (c) a housing choice voucher, which can be used in areas with lower concentrations of poverty. Public housing residents of the revitalized developments must, under the provisions of this bill, be subject to the same screening criteria used for all public housing units. 
   This legislation also mandates adequate oversight, requiring public housing agencies to monitor and track all households affected by the HOPE VI revitalization plan. In addition, public housing agencies must develop a temporary relocation plan that provides comparable housing for all relocated residents, protects residents in transitioning to the private rental market with housing choice vouchers, provides for housing opportunities in 7 neighborhoods with lower concentrations of poverty, and extends the voucher search time to 150 days. 
   Madam Chairman, this legislation also provides for the active involvement and participation of residents in the grant planning process, including public hearings and four notices to residents on (a) the intent to apply for a HOPE VI grant, (b) grant award and relocation options, (c) grant agreement and relocation options, and (d) replacement housing. 
   The bill includes several provisions designed to increase the rate at which HOPE VI developments are constructed, which will help reduce the time tenants are relocated. The bill requires all new housing to be rebuilt within 12 months from the allocation of low-income housing tax credits or, for those grants that do not use tax credits, within 12 months of demolition or disposition. The bill waives the grant matching requirement for HOPE VI applicants in areas recovering from natural disasters or emergencies. This further helps these communities recover quickly and efficiently. Grantees that do not meet performance benchmarks will be penalized. 
   Finally, I would like to draw attention to requirements in this legislation mandating that all replacement housing and other structures part of the HOPE VI development to comply with certain energy-efficient green building standards. This Congress has made protecting the environment a priority, and I am pleased to see this provision included in today's legislation. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOPE VI IMPROVEMENT AND REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 3524, to reauthorize the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Maxine Waters. This important legislation will reauthorize and make changes to the HOPE VI public housing revitalization program. I would like to thank Congresswoman Waters for her consistent and dedicated work on this important issue, as well as to commend Chairman Frank for his leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
   Mr. Chairman, this legislation reauthorizes, with important changes incorporated into the  Manager's Amendment, the HOPE VI public housing revitalization program. Among other provisions, it provides for the retention of public housing units, protects residents from disruptions resulting from the grant, increases resident involvement, and improves the efficiency and expediency of construction. The HOPE VI program, created in 1992, has worked to improve the Nation's most dilapidated public housing units by providing much needed resources to public housing agencies. These funds have directly benefited countless Americans, particularly the elderly and those with disabilities, partnering with local agencies to improve conditions in public housing units and communities. I also support the technical changes made by the Manager's Amendment, and I believe that they will ensure that this legislation works to the maximum benefit of all Americans. 
   Mr. Chairman, because I believe that this is strong and positive legislation, and I would like to take this opportunity to address a number of amendments offered by my distinguished colleagues. I would like to express my support for the amendment introduced by my colleague, Mr. Mahoney. This amendment will restore the set-aside funds for the Main Street grant program. Mr. Chairman, this important program provides resources for the revitalization of older, downtown business districts, while retaining an area's historical character. The Main Street grant program enables smaller communities to develop affordable housing while still retaining their traditional identity and roots in the past. I believe that this program is very important to countless communities across the Nation, seeking to provide for their citizens without losing sight of their shared history. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting Mr. Mahoney's amendment to restore funding for this program to this legislation. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also strongly support the amendment introduced by my colleague, Congresswoman Lee. This amendment will safeguard the rights of elderly and disabled tenants living in HOPE VI housing. Congresswoman Lee's amendment prohibits the eviction of elderly or disabled tenants based on the criminal activities of others, provided that the elderly or disabled tenant did not have knowledge of the criminal activity. This important amendment improves the underlying legislation by ensuring that disadvantaged members of our communities are not further victimized for events beyond their control. It allows Congress to stand up for the rights of those living in public housing, preventing the eviction of elderly and disabled residents as the result of the wrongdoing of family members. 
   However, I must oppose several amendments that I feel will harm the integrity of this bill. I stand opposed to the amendment offered by my colleague and fellow Texan Mr. Neugebauer, 
   limiting the number of dwelling units that housing agencies are required to replace. Under the provisions of this amendment, only those units that are occupied as of the date of the HOPE VI application must be replaced, rather than requiring that all units torn down through the use of HOPE VI grants be replaced on a one-to-one basis. I strongly oppose this change, because I believe it weakens the one-for-one requirement in this legislation by creating incentives for housing agencies to increase the number of vacant units prior to seeking a HOPE VI grant, to decrease the overall number of units that must be replaced. I encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this amendment, and in support of the underlying language. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also must oppose the amendment offered by my colleague Mr. Sessions, reinstating the Department of Housing and Urban Development's authority to issue demolition-only grants. These grants, which have not been issued since 2003, provide resources for the demolition of properties and the relocation of families living there. While this legislation eliminates demolition-only grants, unless the demolition is done in connection with the replacement of dwelling units, ensuring that the total amount of units does not diminish. The adoption of this amendment would gut the strong replacement requirements of the underlying legislation, and would further reduce the already limited affordable housing stock in our nation. 
   I also oppose the amendment offered by Congressman King of Iowa. This amendment would prohibit any amount authorized under this legislation from being used to pay wages in compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act. The adoption of this provision would in effect nullify the applicability of Davis-Bacon to the HOPE VI program. Mr. Chairman, the Davis-Bacon Wage Determinations are issued by the U.S. Department of Labor, and they indicate the prevailing wage rates in a region, to be paid on federally funded or assisted construction projects. These standards ensure that workers on Federal projects are paid a fair wage, and I believe it would be extremely detrimental to workers and to our economy as a whole to exempt HOPE VI projects from these standards. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also stand in opposition to the amendment offered by my colleague Congresswoman Capito, eliminating the requirements that all grants must comply with minimum Green Building requirements. I believe today's legislation, as introduced, makes important steps forward toward responsible stewardship of our natural resources, and Ms. Capito's proposal that compliance with Green Building requirements be only one factor in the evaluation of grant applications would weaken our effort to protect our global environment. The Capito amendment would weaken the minimum standards for energy efficiency set forth in this bill, and would permit the Department of Housing and Urban Development to propose much weaker green development standards than are currently required under this bill. I urge my colleagues to oppose the Capito amendment, and to keep the language set forth by this legislation. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation by protecting the integrity of the underlying language, while making the technical corrections included in the Manager's Amendment to ensure that the intent of the legislation can be enacted.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RETIREMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR JOHN CRUMP -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the members of the National Bar Association being in the Eighty-third meeting of this Association in the City of Houston, County of Harris, State of Texas to affirm and declare the position of said Association in Resolution as follows: 
   In May of the Year 1978, John Crump, being an attorney licensed by the Supreme Court of the State of Texas, acting in direction of the then President of the National Bar, Mark T. McDonald, of MacDonald and McDonald in Houston, Harris County Texas, did remove himself from said city to assume the interim position of the Executive Director of the National Bar Association in the District of Columbia for the period of three months through the  Sixty-third Annual Meeting of said Association, and 
   Since that time in 1978, John Crump, Esquire has toiled diligently to assure that the mission of the Association, as stated in its Constitution and Bylaws, its operating procedures, manuals, subdivision and committee mandates have been addressed and fulfilled to the best of the collective abilities of all parties concerned, and 
   John Crump was able to apply and obtain grants and contractual financing from various funding sources that would allow the Association to provide services to its membership and the clients that they serve consistent with the rules of professional ethics and the obligations and responsibilities of said grants and contracts, the procurement of which led to the opening of the first funded office of the Association, and the stabilization of the Association after the withdrawal of funding by a retaliatory administration, and 
   John Crump has been the single continuing staff person throughout each of these thirty years developing the NBA Continuing legal Education Curriculum and coordination its compliance with all states requesting certification of the membership for each meeting, and 
   John Crump has managed the office of the Association through each of its fiscal years, continuing to identify contractual and opportunities, with such instinctive and trained monitoring of compliance with the requirements, that he has been successful in the evaluation of thirty-one audits by external parties reviewing each award, and 
   John Crump has implemented the programmatic activities of thirty-one different Association Boards of Governors and the thirty-one presidents, each presiding over an Association year with varied themes, management styles, perspectives and appointees, and 
   John Crump, in conjunction with the policy-making Board of Governors, has worked to develop many aspects of the Association operations, related entities and programs including the creation of the National Bar Investment Corporation that facilitated the acquisition of the NBA Office building, the National Bar Institute, the affiliated fundraising entity of the Association, and the NBA Crump Law Camp, the high school nurturing program that provides legal orientation to students from across the country to inspire their interest in the study of the law, and 
   During his tenure with and in development of the requisite skills of negotiating for and best practices of this Association, John Crump provided leadership for such distinguished national organizations as the National Coalition of Black Meeting Planners and the Texas Southern National Alumni Association, representing the memberships of both in several leadership capacities prior to assuming the helms, and 
   In his position of Executive Director, John Crump has been designated by the presiding officers as the national office spokesperson in significant and pressing legal matters, matters of civil rights, compilation of documents representing the Association, such as briefs, public positions, statements, news releases, and the like, as well as many, many appearances before congressional bodies, conferences, formal and informal gatherings, and 
   In pursuit of excellence in service to the Association and the untiring dedication to its objectives, John Crump has never limited his hours of work, sacrificed attainment of personal and financial goals and made himself available to the Association, its membership and extended family in countless endeavors, trying situations and challenging experiences, 
   The members of the National Bar Association saluted its Executive Director John Crump in formal action during the Plenary Session of its Eighty-third Annual Meeting and during additional activities and programs of this Meeting and on this date do hereby caused to be approved this Resolution by its President, congratulating and thanking him for his tireless efforts with and for this Association and affixing the Seal of the Association, as attested by its Secretary. 
   John Crump toiled for thirty years in helping to lead this major civil rights legal organization--the National Bar Association. My constituents offer to John Crump our greatest gratitude for his work and the work of the NBA in making the law work for all Americans, including those who have suffered. Thank you, John!  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3043, the FY 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. Let me first commend my dignified colleague, the gentleman from Wisconsin, Representative David Obey, for his tenacity and strong leadership in steering this important piece of legislation. Among many things, this bill will provide the support and additional resources in areas where our Nation is currently facing scarcity--health care, social security, medical research, skilled workers and job training, community services, as well as the quality, accessibility and affordability of higher education and education for the disabled. 
   Madam Chairman, I must certainly agree with the rationale behind this bill--``we cannot continue to disinvest in our Nation's future.'' Over the past several years, the previous Republican-led Congress significantly cut investments for the Labor-HHS-Education bill, and our 43rd United States President has once again proposed drastic cuts--$7.6 billion below FY 2007. As a Representative of the people of the United States, I am committed to reversing this trend of disinvestment. Our Nation's future is dependent on quality health care, job opportunities for our citizens, decent education, improvement of life-saving technologies, and national security. With $151.7 billion of projected discretionary spending in FY 2008, this bill will provide a modest increase of $4.3 billion (or 3 percent) over 2007, after adjusting for inflation and population. Although this bill will not completely rectify the problem, it is indeed a step towards a positive direction. 
   This bill promises to make college more affordable because its provisions include an increase in the maximum Pell Grant of $390, which is in addition to th $260 enacted in February 2007 by this Democratic-led Congress. 
   This measure will benefit the more than 5.5 million low-and middle-income students across America's higher education system. In addition, this bill provides an increase of 4.8 percent for the TRIO programs, educational opportunity outreach programs designed to motivate and support students from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
   Madam Chairman, this bill is of significant importance to my constituents. For the past twelve years, I have served as a Representative of the 18th Congressional District of Texas. In the heart of my district are several community colleges and three major universities--the University of Houston, the University of Houston--Downtown, as well as one of our nations leading Historically Black College/University, Texas Southern University. In the heart of my district are also three ABA-approved law schools--the University of Houston Law Center, Thurgood Marshall School of Law, and South Texas College of Law. With the rising cost of college education, many of these students in my district are reliant on Federal financial aid to complete their education. Because investment in education system today yields high returns for the individual, as well as society, I support this measure to make college more affordable and accessible. 
   Madam Chairman, quality health care is close to non-existent in this great nation that we call America. As a nation of abundant natural resources and high productivity, it is humiliating to know that 46.6 million citizens are without health insurance. If current policy plans are to continue, by 2013, the number of uninsured Americans will increase by 11 million. This is simply an unacceptable national problem and must be rectified. H.R. 3043 will expand access to health care for the uninsured by providing access for more than 2 million uninsured Americans. Funds will be directed to community health centers, which will enable them to serve an additional 1 million uninsured Americans. The bill also includes a $50 million initiative to assist states in providing high-risk insurance pools, thereby supporting affordable insurance for almost 200,000 medically high-risk people. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill, which invests in initiatives that will provide new access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans. 
   H.R. 3043 invests in life-saving medical research by reversing the previous Republican disinvestment plans and providing an increase for National Institute of Health of $750 million. As once stated by Senator Joe Lieberman, ``by expanding our knowledge of human diseases, we can help 
   reduce health care costs by discovering more effective treatments and learning how to prevent onset of serious illnesses. Biomedical research is a fundamental component of a preventive care approach to health care reform.'' Medical research at NIH offers optimism to millions of American families--with groundbreaking research into diseases such as cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease, and many more. This bill provides an increase of $750 million, which in essence allows for NIH to support another 545 new and competing research grants. Expanding and funding life-saving medical research programs must become a top priority if the United States hopes to combat the inefficiencies and inequities in our health care system. 
   Madam Chairman, it is time that we take a new course of action in investing in our Nation's future. I strongly believe that H.R. 3043 is this new course. Forty-one low priority programs were cut or eliminated, saving $1.1 billion below 2007. Through passage of this bill,  our Nation will benefit from the increase in quality, accessibility and affordability of higher education with the $3.3 billion directed to student financial aid. The academic performance of our American children will be improved through the $1 billion allocation for No Child Left Behind Programs. Our citizens, especially the uninsured, will have the opportunity to receive quality health care, through the $1.3 billion being directed to the Health Resources and Services Administration. This bill also allows for an investment in the skills and training of America's workers and the workforce through additional funding to programs similar to Job Corps, as well as community services initiatives, such as the Community Services Block Grant. Our disabled citizens will be cared for through federal contributions for special education for children with disabilities through the funding of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). 
   Madam Chairman, I am a strong believer that our children are our future. Family is the backbone to the success of any child, as well as the success of our Nation. For this reason, all members of society must be granted access to quality health care, education, and job skills training. It is students like my current Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Intern, Daria Awusah, that gives me strong faith that our future is in good hands. As my constituent, as well as a student at the University of Houston (which is in my district), she has worked tirelessly and endlessly to finance the past three years of her college education. It is her testimony that although not enough, financial aid has been an instrumental element in financing her education. Let us continue to support students like Ms. Awusah. 
   I ask my colleagues to join me and support H.R. 3043. Once again, I thank you, Congressman Obey, for your leadership in this endeavor. Our country's future is dependent on the role that we take as Members of Congress through the policies that we choose to implement. Let us begin with the reinvestment in our country's future by passing H.R. 3043. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF THE TROOPS FROM IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - July 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we have heard this week in publicized reports of the activities that are going on around the world with respect to al Qaeda. The National Intelligence Estimate has indicated publicly, nonclassified information, that this group is franchising. It means that they are able to spread without leadership around the world. And those who have followed the Iraq war recognize that it is a training ground for those terrorists who would then leave and spread their viciousness around the world. 
   We heard this week Prime Minister Maliki indicating that our soldiers could leave. He ultimately said he was misinterpreted. But, frankly, I believe, Mr. Speaker, it is time for our soldiers to be redeployed out of Iraq and that an appropriate and directed decision needs to move all of our soldiers home to America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IMPROVING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE TO DEFEND THE NATION AND THE CONSTITUTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I have listened to the debate this afternoon and I only have these few words of a message. One great patriot said, ``Give me liberty or give me death.'' 
   I want to say to this body, the majority that I happen to be a part of will never endanger the American people. We have given to the DNI what he has asked for, but, most importantly, we have given to the American people their liberty, and we now give them their life. We protect them. Terrorists will not get away from us. This bill will protect the American people. I ask my colleagues to vote for this bill.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3356, the Improving Foreign Intelligence Surveillance to Defend our Nation and Our Constitution Act. I would like to thank my colleagues Mr. Reyes and Mr. Conyers for their leadership on this important issue. 
   This important legislation addresses the intelligence gap identified by Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell, by amending the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA. Madam Speaker, FISA has served the nation well for nearly 30 years, placing electronic surveillance inside the United States for foreign intelligence and counter-intelligence purposes on a sound legal footing.  
   This legislation contains a number of crucial provisions. It clarifies that no court order is required for foreign-to-foreign communications that pass through the United States. It reiterates that individual warrants, based on probable cause, are required when surveillance is directed at people in the United States. This legislation requires the Attorney General to submit procedures for international surveillance to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for approval, and it allows the Court to issue a ``basket warrant'' without requiring the Court to make individual determinations about foreign surveillance. It provides for an initial 15-day emergency authority so that international surveillance can begin while the ``basket warrant'' is submitted to the Court. It allows for congressional oversight, requiring the Department of Justice Inspector General to conduct an audit every 60 days of U.S. person communications intercepted under the ``basket warrant,'' to be submitted to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees. Finally, this is a short-term legislative fix, sunsetting in 120 days. 
   In terms of the President's warrantless surveillance programs, there is still nothing on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of those programs to indicate that they require a legislative response, other than to reaffirm the exclusivity of FISA and insist that it be followed. This is accomplished by H.R. 5371, the ``Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA Act, LISTEN Act,'' which I have co-sponsored last Congress with the Ranking Members of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, Mr. Conyers and Ms. Harman.  
   There is still nothing on the public record about the nature and effectiveness of the President's warrantless surveillance programs to indicate that they require a legislative response, other than to reaffirm the exclusivity of FISA and insist that it be followed. This could have been accomplished last Congress by H.R. 5371, the 
   ``Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA Act'' (LISTEN Act),'' which I was proud to have cosponsored last Congress with the then-Ranking Members of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, Mr. Conyers and Ms. Harman. 
   The Bush administration has not complied with its legal obligation under the National Security Act of 1947 to keep the Intelligence Committees ``fully and currently informed'' of U.S. intelligence activities. Congress cannot continue to rely on incomplete information from the Bush administration or revelations in the media. It must conduct a full and complete inquiry into electronic surveillance in the United States and related domestic activities of the NSA, both those that occur within FISA and those that occur outside FISA. 
   The inquiry must not be limited to the legal questions. It must include the operational details of each program of intelligence surveillance within the United States, including: (1) who the NSA is targeting; (2) how it identifies its targets; (3) the information the program collects and disseminates; and most important; (4) whether the program advances national security interests without unduly compromising the privacy rights of the American people. Given the unprecedented amount of information Americans now transmit electronically and the post-9/11 loosening of regulations governing information sharing, the risk of intercepting and disseminating the communications of ordinary Americans is vastly increased, requiring more precise--not looser--standards, closer oversight, new mechanisms for minimization, and limits on retention of inadvertently intercepted communications. 
   Madam Speaker, this temporary legislative fix addresses the gap identified by Director McConnell. The Majority of both the House and the Senate have set aside partisan differences to work for the security of our Nation. We must ensure that our intelligence professionals have the tools that they need to protect our Nation, while also safeguarding the rights of law-abiding Americans. This is important legislation, and I strongly encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3773, RESTORE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman from Florida, a former jurist, and let me acknowledge that the RESTORE Act is the right balance between national security and the protection of our civil liberties. 
   I beg to differ with my good friend from California because in fact there are elements of this bill that clearly provide the parameters for foreign-to-foreign surveillance. The only difference is the fact that we protect an American citizen who may be targeted inappropriately as the court intervenes in providing a warrant. 
   My friends, we are moving forward to secure America. I support this rule and I support the rule in its present form, because we need to now substitute a real bill that secures America supported by the language of Director McConnell and as well provides the civil liberties that all Americans deserve. I look forward to the debate on the floor. The RESTORE Act is what it is says, protecting us and providing the right surveillance and ensuring that terrorists do not attack America.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support H. Res. 746, the rule governing debate on H.R. 3773, the RESTORE Act. I thank the gentlemen for yielding and wish to use my time to discuss an important improvement in the bill that was adopted in the full Judiciary Committee markup. 
   The Jackson-Lee Amendment added during the markup makes a constructive contribution to this important legislation that already is superior to the misnamed ``Protect America Act'' by orders of magnitude. It does this simply by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   ``Reverse targeting,'' a concept well known to members of this Committee but not so well understood by those less steeped in the arcana of electronic surveillance, is the practice where the government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with the PAA is that the understandable temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting may be difficult to  resist in the absence of strong safeguards in the PAA to prevent it. 
   My amendment reduces even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the Administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieves this objective by requiring the Administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the 
   communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' The current language in the bill provides that a warrant be obtained only when the Government ``seeks to conduct electronic surveillance'' of a person reasonably believed to be located in the United States. 
   It was far from clear how the operative language ``seeks to'' is to be interpreted. In contrast, the language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that has long been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by the agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson Lee Amendment provides a clearer, more objective, criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
   I hasten to add, Mr. Speaker, that nothing in the bill or in my amendment will requires the Government to obtain a FISA order for every overseas target on the off chance that they might pick up a call into or from the United States. Rather, the bill requires, as our amendment makes clear, a FISA order only where there is a particular, known person in the United States at the other end of the foreign target's calls in whom the Government has a significant interest such that a significant purpose of the surveillance has become to acquire that person's communications. 
   This will usually happen over time and the Government will have the time to get an order while continuing its surveillance. And it is the national security interest to require it to obtain an order at that point, so that it can lawfully acquire all of the target person's communications rather than continuing to listen to only some of them. 
   In short, my amendment gives the Government precisely what Director of National Intelligence McConnell asked for when he testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee: 
   ``It is very important to me; it is very important to members of this Committee. We should be required--we should be required in all cases to have a warrant anytime there is surveillance of a US [sic] person located in the United States.'' 
   In short, my amendment makes a good bill even better. For these reasons, I am happy to support the rule and urge all members to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RESPONSIVE GOVERNMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6344 the ``Responsive Government Act of 2008. This bill is important because it liberalizes the technical filing requirements in judicial proceedings in the event of a disaster or other emergency situation. The bill provides flexibility in both criminal and civil matters, including patents. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Hurricane Katrina was the costliest and one of the deadliest hurricanes in the history of the United States. It was the sixth-strongest Atlantic hurricane ever recorded and the third-strongest hurricane on record that made landfall in the United States. Katrina formed on August 23 during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season and caused devastation along much of the north-central gulf coast of the United States. Most notable in media coverage were the catastrophic effects on the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, and in coastal Mississippi. Due to its sheer size, Katrina devastated the gulf coast as far as 100 miles from the storm's epicenter. 
   The images of the detriment and devastation remain deeply etched in my mind and much of the remnants of the tragedy still remain in those communities today. The storm surge caused severe and catastrophic damage along the gulf coast, devastating the cities of Bay St. Louis, Waveland, Biloxi/Gulfport in Mississippi, Mobile, Alabama, and Slidell, Louisiana and other towns in Louisiana. Levees separating Lake Pontchartrain and several canals from New Orleans were breached a few days after Hurricane Katrina had subsided, subsequently flooding 80 percent of the city and many areas of neighboring parishes for weeks. In addition, severe wind damage was reported well inland. 
   This commonsense bill recognizes that deadlines in judicial proceeding need to be relaxed when there are natural disasters and emergencies. I support the bill. 
   Specifically, the bill provides federal courts with needed emergency authority to toll or delay judicial proceedings in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency situation in which courts are closed, making it impracticable for parties, including the United States, to comply with certain filing deadlines. 
   Section 3 of the bill provides authority to the Director of the Patent and Trademark office to waive statutory provisions governing patents, trademark registrations and applications to the extent the Director deems necessary to protect the rights and privileges of people affected by certain emergencies or a major disaster. 
   The Responsive Government Act provides essential flexibility to the courts and the PTO to help ameliorate the practical difficulties caused by these emergency situations. 
   Finally, Section 4 provides the Director of the Patent and Trademark Office with the discretion to accept an application for a patent term extension filed not later than three days after the expiration of the 60-day period in Title 35 U.S.C. 156, provided the Director determines that the delay in filing the application was unintentional. 
   This provision, which corrects an anomaly in the patent law, will provide needed flexibility to the PTO to excuse minor filing errors and will promote important clinical research that can benefit the lives of seriously ill patients. This provision has the support of leading medical practitioners across the Nation. 
   This bill is common sense. It relaxes the technical filing requirements during times of disaster or emergency. Given the disaster and tough times that we have faced within the last 8 years, with disasters such as Hurricanes Rita and Katrina, and the tragic events of 9/11, Congress needs to have a sensible response to these events. Litigants and patentees should not be penalized because of force majeur and other events beyond their control.  
   Because this bill is sensible, responsible legislation, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I want to thank my distinguished friend, Congressman Ed Towns. I think it's important to note of his leadership on the Energy and Commerce Committee for any number of years. We have joined together on understanding this issue as it impacts our very broad communities. 
   The distinguished Congressman, as I note, my good friend from Georgia, is on the floor as well. We all come from different districts. He comes from an urban-centered northeastern district that has mass transit very deeply, but as well it's interesting to note that the cost of gasoline impacts all of our constituents. 
   I come from a broad, if you will, expensive district in the State of Texas that has not only a fledgling metro system, a metro system that we are just beginning to build, mass transit, but as well it is a community that uses its cars.     
   We carpool. We carpool to work. We live very far apart. It is a very large district. Therefore, the cost of gasoline is very, very costly. So we have to come together to address this question from the perspective of how will the consumer feel? We know there has been a question, a bracelet everybody used to wear asking the question how would a certain heavenly person feel about a question. We now ask, how does the consumer feel? 
   So I rise today to say that I think it is important for this Congress to come together and to be able to push forward an energy agenda that really gets down to the real individuals that are burdened by this cause. So let me explain, Mr. Towns, what I believe is important. 
   First, let me applaud the leadership for their new direction in energy. It is an important direction. It is a greening direction. It focuses on alternatives. It focuses on creating green jobs and getting a sense of understanding about the smallness of the resources that are  available now, the fossil fuel and other energy resources that need to be utilized, and therefore it is important to, if you will, impress upon Americans the value of conservation. But, at the same time, I think there are a lot of other issues that we can discuss. 
   I believe we should accept the premise that there are a number of energy resources that this Congress needs to address. For example, I come from Texas, and obviously we utilize fossil fuel. I think it is important to recognize that fossil fuel is present, but I think we need to emphasize looking at independent producers. They were very prominent in years past. These are smaller companies. 
   I do believe we need to look at where we are exploring off the Gulf, where those States of Louisiana and Texas have willingly accepted the exploration of the Gulf in a safe and environmental way. 
   Two or three years ago, Congressman Nick Lampson and myself passed legislation to encourage the Federal Government to do an inventory of what was available in terms of fossil fuel resources in the Gulf. I think it is important. We know that there are challenges to exploring the Outer Continental Shelf. There are challenges to exploring ANWR. There are challenges in exploring the coast off the East Coast and the California coast and the Florida coast. I believe those issues are issues that we have to work with the local jurisdictions and the governors and consumers for that to be a comfortable process. 
   But let us not get stuck on that. There are resources in the Gulf. We have found that there is oil shale, I believe, that has been discovered in West Virginia. There are other domestic resources that have been discovered in Mississippi. We need to be able to utilize and to be able to encourage the safe development of existing resources. 
   We know that our own multinational energy companies are holding leases they have not utilized. I believe it is important to call these individuals into Washington. The President needs to call these individuals into Washington, the heads of these major companies, and let us discuss why these oil leases are not being utilized, because there lies a possibility of additional resources. 
   Mr. Towns, you know that we have been discussing over the years the increasing of minority energy entrepreneurs. They come in all shapes and sizes. But I happen to know an energy company in the State of Texas, Osyka, that is held solely by African Americans with domestic deposits. They have resources. But what do they need? They need investment. They are not overseas. They are right here in the United States, but they need investment. 
   So I think there are a lot of small, independent producers that the legislative scheme here in the United States does not foster their development, does not provide them access to capital, does not allow them to build on the resources that they have. You can be assured that the more resources we put out allows us to have the ability to bring down the cost of gasoline. 
   Let me add an additional point that I think should be considered. When you talk to the multinationals about the cost of gasoline, they will refer you to the antiquated refineries, that they need to build more refineries. That too requires a coming together at the table. I believe we need to have a discussion so they can explain what does it mean by having an antiquated refinery? 
   There is a new refinery being built in East Texas and in Louisiana. That refinery took a long time to build. But maybe we need to update the refineries. I know that is a questionable proposal and policy to make them more environmentally efficient and safe. That is a key element to dealing with this. 
   Before I yield back and wait a moment as you yield to the distinguished gentleman from Georgia, I want to cite some numbers that say that the Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. The world's greatest petroleum reserves reside in regions of high geopolitical risk, including 57 percent which are in the Persian Gulf. 
   Replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol cannot only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to it our annual trade deficit, it can end our addiction to foreign oil. These alternatives should be matched with domestic production. That may help a lot of these small interested producers. 
   Also the individual oil companies, the large ones who have leases here in the United States, we need to have an inventory and get a determination, as I said, as to why these leases are not being developed. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can replace 30 percent of our Nation's petroleum consumption. 
   So there are ways we can confront this issue. One other way, of course, is to develop more professionals, which we have discussed, and I want to discuss that later. 
   Let me conclude by saying we have a real crisis in addition to the cost of gasoline. That crisis includes jet fuel. We are seeing the merger of airlines and also a crisis in the airline industry because of the cost of jet fuel. That too impacts on our consumers. 
   So I frankly believe as we discuss this, Mr. Towns, we should talk about what speculators have done to the energy industry. We should talk about minority entrepreneurs who are able to participate in this industry. We should talk about independent producers. We should talk about greening America. We should talk about conservation. And really we should get to the bottom line of how we help our consumers. I think if we bring all these elements together, we will be able to do so. 
   I will yield back to the gentleman and will join you at a later time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you very much. I'm glad to have an opportunity to engage again and to thank Congressman Towns. 
   As I have listened to both Congressman Johnson and Congresswoman Lee, I hope that what is gleaned to our colleagues as they listen to us is that there is a consensus, a meeting of the minds, that we've got to do something different. I applaud Congresswoman Lee's collaboration with her mayor, Mayor Dellums. 
   As I was standing here, I was reflecting on the work that our city is doing. We have Mayor Bill White, but I'm quite familiar with the Apollo Alliance, and I was just thinking that it's time now for another meeting to be able to join in that kind of expansive effort. 
   So, if the Apollo Alliance is listening, let me congratulate them, and let me tell them to come on down to Texas. We've had some meetings early on, but it's the whole concept of educating individuals to change their lives. 
   You said something else, Congresswoman, about energy. You used the word ``energy'' and the words ``energy industry.'' That's coming from what we perceive to be the oil capital of the world--Houston, Texas. I want you to know a lot of hardworking people are working in the energy industry, and they, too, see a new world of alternative fuels and also an opportunity to match, if you will, efficiently explored fossil fuels, because it does exist. There is something called ``clean coal.'' As I indicated to you, there is something in the gulf, outside of your birthplace in Texas and Louisiana, where they have been quietly exploring oil and gas for a number of years, and it has been efficient. Even during Hurricane Katrina we noted that those rigs still stayed safe in the gulf. So we can find ways to combine these efforts. 
   As I listened to Congressman Johnson and he took us chronologically to 2001, I want to remind him that post 2001, in 2002, there was created the havoc and the travesty and obviously, as he indicated, the crisis of the Iraq war. Whether or not the Iraq war was for oil, as has been debated, it destabilized the region. When you destabilize the region where all of the oil is coming from, you obviously dumb down the resources coming from that area. 
   But I wanted to bring to the attention of my colleagues that we know that Saudi Arabia, in this meeting that they've held in the last 48 hours, has suggested that they will increase oil production by 200,000 barrels a day to 9.7 million barrels a day, starting on July 1, in response to the current energy crisis. 
   The concern there, of course, is that China is increasing its needs, and even though we're sort of plateauing out, I do believe that this is an issue that might not be resolved by the increase in the per barrel per day, meaning the 200,000 barrels per day. 
   We need a summit. We need a summit here in the United States. We need to get all of the parties together, discussing these components--the high gasoline price, the lack of utilization of the independent producers, not giving capital an access to African Americans and to other minorities who, in fact, might be good stewards of the energy resources, such as those who are finding oil in the Deep South, such as those who are engaged in green and in alternative fuels such as wind. 
   I offered a bill on cellulosic ethanol, which, I think, is really one of the next steps. Of course, this was embodied in the Democratic conservation bill that included cellulosic ethanol. I know there has been debate over corn ethanol, but here is an approach: Through cellulosic ethanol, costly though it may be, it has a long-term impact. 
   I also believe it's important to support the legislation that has been offered by two of our colleagues--one to be, I believe, JOHN LARSON, who is moving forward on legislation that has to do with the speculator. We have heard, even today, oil analysts who have said that the speculators are adding an artificial price. In fact, the Enron loophole that was offered by Senator Graham has given a whole array, a whole new industry on speculation, and more and more energy companies are pulling back from that. They're dealing with their own product and with their own need, and I want to applaud them for that. 
   I want to cite Representative Van Hollen's Energy Markets Anti-Manipulation and Integrity Restoration Act. I happen to be a cosponsor of that legislation. I think it's important. I voted to stop the filling on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which will help American families by temporarily diverting the 70,000 barrels of oil that goes to the SPR a day and putting them out on the market. 
   What I think is important, again, Congressman Towns, is that we're not  having face-to-face discussions. I asked the question of one of the members of OPEC: What would be the possibility of Members of Congress being observers at the OPEC meeting? 
   The OPEC meeting has large numbers of African countries. It has large numbers of countries from South America. Then, of course, it has those from the Middle East. I, frankly, believe it's somewhat similar to treaty discussions, that it's somewhat similar to the discussion on race in South Africa when they were on track, that it's somewhat similar to the United Nations. It would be Members of Congress' representing the most powerful law-making body in the world, as described by others, their being able to go to the OPEC meetings as observers and understanding the process of how this oil and gas moves.     
   This does not diminish the call for conservation. But I do think it will open our eyes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If I may quickly conclude so my distinguished friend from Georgia, who has made some valid points about the Iraq war that we are still suffering, I was reading something, Congressman Johnson, about the condition of the Iraq oil wells and the difficulty of bringing them online and the need for U.S. investment or other investment. 
   It is interesting, a lot of people think we are making a lot of money in Iraq; we are spending a lot of money in Iraq, I will tell you that. 
   Let me say this. I will thank all three of my colleagues. I will continue to work and pursue an answer. The Representative indicated he was very interested, and would go back and ask. The meeting is in September and I will pursue that. I don't have the exact location, but I believe it is in Europe. If so, it would be easy for us to go. 
   I think the other part would be to give the energy leadership of these multinationals, and obviously they are in my congressional district, but a forum to be able to have a conversation outside of a hearing setting. We need to ask the hard questions. We need to ask how much of the cost of gasoline is the refinery cost? How much of the cost of jet fuel is refinery cost? What is attributable to having old refineries, and what can you do to make the energy name of your industry more diverse, to have more green and more alternatives such as wind and biomass. 
   I am told that wind is very expensive, but you can't get that answer if we are not sitting down at the table. 
   I thank the gentleman for the idea of a summit. We may work on that. Let me conclude by saying we have been working in this Congress. I don't want anyone to think that we have not been sensitive. You listed a whole road map that you, Mr. Towns, as a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee have been very much involved in. For example, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008, a combination of the Ways and Means Committee and the Energy Committee, which I think is very important because it encourages the development of innovative technologies, creating new jobs, reducing carbon emissions, protecting consumers, shifting production to cleaner renewable energy, and modernizing our energy infrastructure. 
   The note I want to end on is we have to get more young people involved. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. And that is very important. 
   What I want to end on is we must get more of our young people involved in the energy industry. We worked on this, Congressman Towns. We had a bill about geologists. I have listened to Congresswoman Lee as the chairwoman of the Energy Brain Trust, and we are going to try and focus on that and push our communities, Hispanics and African Americans and other minorities and women, to get into this industry and provide their sensitivity and provide their perspective so that they can talk eloquently about what gasoline prices really mean when they are this high. And then to add to the broader community of America who is crying out for relief, I believe we can turn the corner, or we should, and to bring to all of America an opportunity to have reasonable energy resources, heat in the winter and air conditioning in the summer, and reasonable gasoline prices; because, frankly, I don't think that we can last much longer if we don't bring relief. 
   I thank you for bringing this very important special order to the floor tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I would like us to move past these hot months that we have right now and begin to look forward into particularly the colder areas of America and begin to think about what is going to happen with heating fuel and this new coming winter season. We sort of got the tail end of the high price of gasoline sort of as we were leaving the winter months or as we were getting into the summer months, and we saw a crisis of people going on a vacation and taking their kids places during the summer facing this very high cost for gasoline per gallon. 
   But I met with some of my power companies who provide energy, and, of course, I am in a warmer climate than many of my colleagues. But I am concerned about what we will confront with natural gas and other fossil fuels that may be utilized for heating people's homes. What a crisis for elderly and others and families who can't afford their heating fuels. 
   So I believe that today on the floor of the House we have offered a suggestion. A summit doesn't mean 3,000 people. It means getting all of the parties together that can sit at the table. Get this energy industry at the table. Let them lay out what is a concept of your company, because energy for me means that you are diversified under the concept of energy, green energy, alternative biomass, begin to look at how we can lay down this roadmap. 
   And then I think, of course, we need to emphasize the environmentally safe exploration of drilling, as my colleague indicated, and the reason why I say that is because it's still going on in the gulf, not as they say--I know it's difficult in other areas. But in the gulf, it's still going on, and it should be environmentally safe. 
   Then I think as members of the Congressional Black Caucus we need some meetings with the heads of the nations in the Continent in Africa, Angola, Guinea Bassu, Nigeria. Ghana is finding oil. And it would be very helpful to sit down and have a discussion as to how their product can be marketed where there is--I know the bottom line has to do with dollars--but where there is a sense of morality, a sense of rightness on how that works. And again, it ties into my inquiry and outreach that I am going to make to OPEC because I think a lot of heads are better than none. And you listed all of the good works of the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008, and I think it's important to note this is what the Democrats did. 
   But I want to invite people to come together during the Congressional Black Caucus, Mr. Towns, and we can join together under the energy brain trust. I must pay tribute to my predecessor, and you certainly knew him, Congressman Mickey Leland, who organized the brain trust, on the basis of getting a sense of morality in this industry. In fact, he was coming into it with another energy crisis that was certainly in that time. 
   So I believe that with all of the hidden resources that we still have, we will open resources that we can address. And the only reason why we're not coming together is I don't think that we're putting our heads together to be able to develop the kind of balanced policy that brings these people together. 
   I do want to make mention of the fact that I am looking forward to a roundtable discussion with leadership in my district. However, that is the beginning stages of what I think can be a larger question for this Congress to address, for leadership, for members of the Congressional Black Caucus, for our caucus members to address, because our constituents and poor constituents and elderly constituents and ailing constituents are impacted by the high cost of gasoline and heating oil. 
   And I thank the distinguished gentleman for giving us an opportunity to raise these crucial issues that I believe have to be raised. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman will yield, I want to thank Congressman Towns, and let me extend to my colleagues an invitation to come to Houston and let us have a summit, a discussion, beginning discussion for energy and getting a roadmap for energy.  
   I would like to thank my fellow CBC Member, Representative TUBBS-JONES for her consistent leadership on the issue of energy. ``I am proud to have worked with my dear colleague in the CBC on a number of occasions to promote a most energy responsible America. 
   We are all painfully aware of the devastation high energy prices have had on American families. This New Direction Congress, of which I am proud to be a part, is fighting to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and bring down record gas prices, and launch a cleaner, smarter energy future for America that lowers costs and creates hundreds of thousands of green jobs. 
   It is undeniable that America, today, is in the midst of an energy crisis. Just this weekend, Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, announced that it will increase oil production by 200,000 barrels a day to 9.7 million barrels a day staring July 1st in response the current energy crisis. While this is an important step in the right direction, it is not enough. At a recent world economic forum in Doha, I called for Members of Congress and the United States Government to participate in OPEC's deliberations, in regards to energy production. 
   I am extremely supportive of the legislation introduced by my distinguished colleague from Maryland, Representative VAN HOLLEN, The Energy Markets Anti-Manipulation and Integrity Restoration Act, of which I am a proud cosponsor. This important legislation would close the so-called Enron loophole by adding energy to the list of items that cannot be traded on deregulated ``exempt commercial markets'', as well as closing the Foreign Board of Trade (FBOT) loophole by forbidding an exchange from being deemed an unregulated foreign entity if its trading affiliate or trading infrastructure is in the U.S., and it trades a U.S.-delivered contract that significantly affects price discovery. 
   Just last month, I voted to stop the filling on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve which will help American families by temporarily diverting the 70,000 barrels of oil that go into the SPR a day, and consequently has the potential to reduce gas prices from 5 to 24 cents a gallon, helping American families, businesses, and the economy as a whole. 
   There is an undeniable consensus on the importance of America achieving energy independence in the 21st century. It is critical that we terminate our dependence on foreign sources of oil, the majority of which are located in regions of the world which are unstable and in most circumstances, opposed to our interests. Accordingly, there is no issue more essential to our economic and national security than energy independence. 
   I was happy to vote for the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008, which is significant and comprehensive legislation that will make substantial strides towards energy independence for our Nation, while also encouraging the development of innovative technologies, creating new jobs, reducing carbon emissions, protecting consumers, shifting production to clean and renewable energy, and modernizing our energy infrastructure. 
   In addition to being a representative from Houston, Texas, the energy capital of the world, for the past 12 years I have been the Chair of the Energy Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus. During this time, I have hosted a variety of energy braintrusts designed to bring in all of the relevant players ranging from environmentalists to producers of energy from a variety of sectors including coal, electric, natural gas, nuclear, oil, and alternative energy sources as well as energy producers from West Africa. My Energy Braintrusts were designed to be a call of action--to all of the sectors who comprise the American and international energy industry, to the African American community, and to the nation as a whole. 
   Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, especially ours. Producing more of it leads to more good jobs, cheaper goods, lower fuel prices, and greater economic and national security. Bringing together thoughtful yet distinct voices to engage each other on the issue of energy independence has resulted in the beginning of a transformative dialectic which can ultimately result in reforming our energy industry to the extent that we as a nation achieve energy security and energy independence. 
   Because I represent the city of Houston, the energy capital of the world, I realize that many oil and gas companies provide many jobs for many of my constituents and serve a valuable need. The energy industry in Houston exemplifies the stakeholders who must be instrumental in devising a pragmatic strategy for resolving our national energy crisis. 
   That is why it is crucial that while seeking solutions to secure more energy independence within this country, we must strike a balance that will still support an environment for continued growth in the oil and gas industry, which I might add, creates millions of jobs across the entire country. 
   We have many more miles to go before we achieve energy independence. Consequently, I am willing, able, and eager to continue working with Houston's and our Nation's energy industry to ensure that we are moving expeditiously on the path to crafting an environmentally sound and economically viable energy policy. 
   Furthermore, I think it is imperative that we involve small, minority- and women-owned, and independent energy companies in this process because they represent some of the hard working Americans and Houstonians who are on the forefront of energy efficient strategies to achieving energy independence. 
   According to the U.S. Minerals Management Service (MMS), America's deep seas on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) contain 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas (the U.S. consumes 23 TCF per year) and 86 billion barrels of oil (the U.S. imports 4.5 billion per year). Even with all these energy resources, the U.S. sends more than $300 billion (and countless American jobs) overseas every year for energy we can create at home. 
   I believe that we should mandate environmentally safe and efficient exploration techniques in the Gulf Coast which energy companies have demonstrated a willingness and capacity to utilize. By ensuring access to increasing sources of energy in an environmentally conscious way, I believe we can decrease our dependence on foreign oil. 
   I support innovative solutions to our national energy crisis, such as my legislation which alleviates our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels by utilizing loan guarantees to promote the development of traditional and cellulosic ethanol technology. 
   The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. The world's greatest petroleum reserves reside in regions of high geopolitical risk, including 57 percent of which are in the Persian Gulf. Replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, it can end our addiction to foreign oil. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our nation's petroleum consumption. 
   Along with traditional production of ethanol from corn, cellulosic ethanol can be produced domestically from a variety of feedstocks, including switchgrass, corn stalks and municipal solid wastes, which are available throughout our nation. Cellulosic ethanol also relies on its own byproducts to fuel the refining process, yielding a positive energy balance. Whereas the potential production of traditional corn-based ethanol is about 10 billion gallons per year, the potential production of cellulosic ethanol is estimated to be 60 billion gallons per year. 
   In addition to ensuring access to more abundant sources of energy, replacing petroleum use with ethanol will help reduce U.S. carbon emissions, which are otherwise expected to increase by 80 percent by 2025. Cellulosic ethanol can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 87 percent. Thus, transitioning from foreign oil to ethanol will protect our environment from dangerous carbon and greenhouse gas emissions. With its commitment to American biofuels, this legislation calls for a significant increase in the Renewable Fuels Standard. It encourages the diversification of American energy crops thus ensuring that biodiesel and cellulosic sources are key components in the America's drive to become energy independent. 
   By investing in renewable energy and increasing access to potential sources of energy, I believe we can be partners with responsible members of America's energy producing community in our collective goal of reaching energy independence.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING HIGH SCHOOL VALEDICTORIANS OF GRADUATING CLASS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1229, recognizing the achievements of America's high school valedictorians of the graduating class of 2008, promoting the importance of encouraging intellectual growth, and rewarding academic excellence of all American high school students, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative Gregory Meeks, of which I am a proud cosponsor. This bill is an important step in continuing and promoting the excellent secondary education that our nation provides. 
   This legislation recognizes the fine accomplishments of the graduating class of 2008 and commends them for their intellectual pursuits as well as their academic achievements. This bill, furthermore, recognizes the family members, teachers, school administrators, and community members that have nurtured the intellectual growth and rewarded the academic achievements of this year's valedictorians and graduating seniors. 
   This year, valedictorians across America have succeeded in tremendous academic endeavors. Whether by inspiring their fellow classmates to study a little longer for a test, or by tutoring them to write an essay, valedictorians have acted as noteworthy role models to their peers. Furthermore, through their hard work and dedications, they have enriched their academic communities. 
   It is further important that we recognize that valedictorians often engage in extracurricular activities, enriching their local communities and the nation by furthering economic, cultural, and social accomplishments. By volunteering their time in soup kitchens, acting as captain of the soccer team or chess club, or simply taking an after-school job, valedictorians learn more than math and English, they learn to contribute significantly to our society. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I recognize the importance of today's youth. Valedictorians as well as graduating seniors of 2008 will become the future businessmen, leaders, teachers, and scientists that lead this nation. They will use their extraordinary talents to make the world a better place. As thus, it is important for them to continue to cultivate their strengths by attending one of the many universities that this great nation has to offer. I support this legislation that encourages valedictorians and the graduating class of 2008 as a whole, to further their intellectual inquiry and academic studies beyond their secondary education. 
   With over 15,000 of our nation's schools recognizing this year's valedictorians as the highest academically-ranked students in their graduating class, the members of Congress, as representatives of our nation, must recognize these talented individuals for their hard work. By doing so, we demonstrate the importance of education and show our support for the continued hard work of students across the country. Without this official recognition, talented youth may not feel support which can push them to achieve high goals, such as past valedictorians and the valedictorians of the 2008 graduating class have achieved. I feel strongly that this bill is a step toward providing support for students. 
   This legislation is imperative to recognizing the achievement of the graduating class of 2008, supporting social engagements by graduating seniors to better our communities, and promoting continued intellectual pursuits by these men and women at colleges and universities. As the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, a Representative of the people of the United States, and a mother of two, I am proud to cosponsor this legislation and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF BLACK MUSIC MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 372, Supporting the goals and ideals of Black Music Month and to honor the outstanding contributions that African American singers and musicians have made to the United States, introduced by my distinguished colleague from Michigan, Representative Kilpatrick. This important resolution honors, recognizes, preserves, and promotes the legacy  and contributions that Black Music and African American singers and musicians have made to our great Nation. 
   Black Music has been woven into the fabric of American Society for centuries, deeply impacting hundreds of generations. The music of African-Americans is the music of America, and has historically transcended social, economic, and racial barriers to unite people of all backgrounds. African American artists, songwriters, producers, engineers, educators, executives, and other professionals in the music industry provide inspiration and leadership through their creation of music, and their value to the African American community cannot be overstated. 
   African-American music is indigenous to the United States and originates from African genres of music. From gospel, blues, jazz, rhythm and blues, rap, and hip-hop, African Americans musical roots can be heard throughout many musical genres that we love today. African-American music has had a pervasive influence on dance, 
   fashion, language, art, literature, cinema, media, advertisements, and other aspects of culture and this legislation commends its pervasive influence. Furthermore, Black music has helped African-Americans endure great suffering and overcome injustice with courage and faith. Civil rights demonstrators often marched to the cadence of many songs written and composed as gospels or spirituals that were created on the fields of slaves. 
   As we know, African-American music is an American art form that has spanned throughout hundreds of years. Its musical elements can be heard melodiously infused in many genres that we love today. It has grown beyond its roots to achieve pop-culture and historical relevance, touching audiences around the world. According to the Gospel Music Channel, ``Gospel music sales now account for nearly 8 percent of all music purchased in the United States, selling seven CDs for every ten purchased in country music.'' 
   Regardless of their musical styles, artists have turned to Black music as the source and inspiration for their own music, which has blurred the boundaries between secular and Gospel music. African-American musicians have played a significant role in inspiring people across the generations in America and around the world with their vision and creativity by writing lyrics which speak to the human experience and express heartfelt emotion. This important legislation requests and authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe such with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
   In 1979, President Carter first declared June as Black Music Month, an honor that has yearly repeated by the designation of National Black Music Month by all concurrent Presidents. African-American musicians have helped shape our national character and have become an important part of our musical heritage and African-American music has millions of fans of different races and ages in cities and towns all across the United States. I am proud to support this legislation that honors the outstanding contributions that African-American singers, musicians, composers, and producers have made to this country and call on the people of the United States to take the opportunity to study, reflect on, and celebrate the majesty, vitality, and importance of African-American music. 
   Madam Speaker, I am proud to support this legislation that supports the goals and ideals of Black Music Month and I urge all my colleagues to join me in so doing.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4044, the ``National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Act of 2008.'' This bill is important because it liberalizes the debt relief standard for those persons who are most deserving, our Nation's heroes that serve in the National Guard. 
   This bill is important because the President has made it more difficult for people to claim bankruptcy. Specifically, the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (2005 Bankruptcy Act) was signed into law by President George W. Bush on April 20, 2005. The 2005 Bankruptcy Act is the most comprehensive overhaul of bankruptcy law in more than 25 years. The 2005 Bankruptcy Act makes particular changes to the consumer bankruptcy. The changes to consumer bankruptcy included, among other things, the establishment of a means testing mechanism to determine a debtor's ability to repay debts. Under this test, a chapter 7 bankruptcy case is presumed to be an abuse if it appears that the debtor has income in excess of certain thresholds. 
   H.R. 4044 would exempt certain qualifying reserve component members of the Armed Services and National Guard members from the means test's presumption of abuse. This bill responds to the fact that some who serve in the National Guard and the Reserves encounter financial difficulties and that they should not be subject to the additional proof requirements of the means test. 
   I am a co-sponsor of this bill and I urge my colleagues to support it. This bill makes sense because often Armed Services personnel and Reservists receive high compensation when they are away on hazardous tours or combat zones. However, when these individuals return, their income is not as high. Therefore, it is unfair to subject these individuals to the means test. Simply, the means test is whether the person has the means to pay his or her debts. Hazard pay and temporary high pay for combat work is not necessarily a good indicator of a person's means or ability to pay. These individuals are serving our country and have legitimate financial concerns. I do not believe that they should be penalized. I believe we should help our armed services personnel for giving so much to fight for and protect this country. The least we can do is help them. 
   I firmly believe that we should celebrate our National Guard and Reservists, and I remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to ensuring that we demonstrate our respect for them. The National Guard and Reservists have kept their promise to serve our Nation; they have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. 
   As the great British leader Winston Churchill famously stated, ``Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.'' 
   We must always remember the debt that we owe our National Guard and Reservists that are willing to lay down their lives for us and render the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom and security. Our gratitude must continue to be unwavering. 
   In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ``As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the praises of our Nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3546 to reauthorize the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne-JAG) Program at fiscal year 2006 levels through 2012. The Byrne-JAG monies are supposed to be used to make America a safer place. I support the reauthorization and I would urge my colleagues to do likewise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE 44TH ANNIVERSARY OF FREEDOM SUMMER -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to support the commemoration of the 44th Anniversary of the death of civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Michael Schwerner in Philadelphia, Mississippi while working in the name of American democracy to register voters and secure civil rights during the summer of 1964, which would become known as Freedom Summer. I would like to thank my fellow Judiciary member and the gentleman from Georgia, Congressman John Lewis for introducing this legislation. 
   The right to vote has held a central place in the black freedom struggle. After emancipation, African Americans sought the ballot as a means to in American society. During the summer of 1964, thousands of civil rights activists, many of them white college students from the North, descended on Mississippi and other Southern states to try to end the long-time political disenfranchisement of African Americans in the region. Although blacks had won the right to vote in 1870, thanks to the Fifteenth Amendment, for the next 100 years many were unable to exercise that right. White local and state officials systematically kept blacks from voting through formal methods, such as poll taxes and literacy tests, and through cruder methods of fear and intimidation, which included beatings and lynchings. 
   Freedom Summer marked the climax of intensive voter-registration activities in the South that had started in 1961. Organizers chose to focus their efforts on Mississippi because of the State's particularly dismal voting-rights record: in 1962 only 6.7 percent of African Americans in the State were registered to vote, the lowest percentage in the country. The Freedom Summer campaign was organized by a coalition called the Mississippi Council of Federated Organizations, which was led by the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), and included the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). 
   Freedom Summer activists faced threats and harassment throughout the campaign, not only from white supremacist groups, but from local residents and police. Freedom School buildings and the volunteers' homes were frequent targets; 37 black churches and 30 black homes and businesses were firebombed or burned during that summer, and the cases often went unsolved. More than 1000 black and white volunteers were arrested, and at least 80 were beaten by white mobs or racist police officers. 
   But the summer's most infamous act of violence was the murder of three young civil rights workers--a black volunteer, James Chaney, and his white coworkers, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner. On June 21, Chaney, Goodman and Schwerner set out to investigate a church bombing near Philadelphia, Mississippi, but were arrested that afternoon and held for several hours on alleged traffic violations. Their release from jail was the last time they were seen alive before their badly decomposed bodies were discovered under a nearby dam six weeks later. Goodman and Schwerner had died from single gunshot wounds to the chest, and Chaney from a savage beating. These savage attacks were perpetrated by the Ku Klux Klan. 
   The FBI investigation that uncovered the deaths of these three brave young men, white and black, also led to the discovery of the bodies of several other African-Americans from Mississippi, whose disappearances over the years had not attracted much attention. 
   On December 4, 1964, 21 White Mississippians from Philadelphia, Mississippi, including the sheriff and his deputy, were arrested and charged with conspiring to deprive Andrew Goodman, James Chaney, and Michael Schwerner of their civil rights, because murder was not a Federal crime. Ironically, on the very same day, December 4, 1964, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. received the Nobel Peace Prize. 
   Later, a District Court judge dismissed the charges against the 21 Whites. After three years, and an appeal to the Supreme Court, seven individuals were found guilty, but 2 of the defendants, including Edgar Ray Killen, who had been implicated by witnesses, were acquitted because the jury was deadlocked on charges. 
   Over twenty years later, on June 21, 2005 after new evidence, a jury convicted Edgar Ray Killen on 3 counts of manslaughter. These freedom riders made the ultimate sacrifice for the freedom of all people, black and white. It is fitting that we recognize them and pay tribute, respect, and homage to them, and to the legacy that they have left behind. 
   We commemorate and acknowledge the legacy of these brave Americans who participated in the civil rights movement and the role they played in changing the hearts and minds of Americans. We also celebrate these Americans for their decision to create a political environment necessary to pass legislation to expand civil rights and voting rights for all Americans.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. 
   Let me just add my voice of support for H.R. 547, the Advanced Fuel Infrastructure Research and Development Act. I know, Mr. Ranking Member, my good friend, we have had a colorful discussion on many, many issues. The American people are waiting to pass this bill. I add my support to H.R. 547.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 547, the Advanced Research and Development Act. H.R. 547 will make biofuels, like E85 ethanol, easier to access and use by developing new technologies that would allow retailers to offer biofuels using existing infrastructure. 
   Mr. Chairman, providing consumers with diverse fuel choices is crucial to the viability of a strong economy and a safe environment. First, creation of alternative fuels through research and development will not only create employment opportunities across the country, but it will also allow consumers to save money previously spent on high-priced gasoline and oil. These savings will fuel the American economy by putting more money in the pockets of consumers which they will spend on other goods and services in their local communities and across the country. Moreover, businesses will be able to reinvest those savings from lower gas and oil prices to reinvest to expand its productivity and profits. Second, investing in clean renewable energy and providing consumers with diverse fuel choices will create a cleaner environment and reverse the terrible trends that have led to the Global warming throughout the world. 
   H.R. 547 is a vehicle by which we can drive this country in the direction of energy independence. The high costs of oil and gas derive primarily from our overwhelming dependence on foreign oil. The Energy Information Administration estimates that the United States imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it consumes. 
   Mr. Chairman, we cannot even remotely begin to reduce the high price of oil and gas which has caused many of our citizens to change their standards of living, unless and until we find ways to create a more self-sufficient energy environment within the United States. Investing in clean, renewable energy is an important first step to achieving this goal. For 
   example, replacing oil imports with domestic alternatives such as traditional and cellulosic ethanol can not only help reduce the $180 billion that oil contributes to our annual trade deficit, but it can also end our addiction to foreign oil. According to the Department of Agriculture, biomass can displace 30 percent of our nation's petroleum consumption. 
   Under H.R. 547, costs of fuels will also decrease due to the role that the EPA, the Department of Energy and the National Institute of Standards and Technology will play in the area of research and development. The bill directs the Environmental Protection Agency EPA, in consultation with the Department of Energy DOE and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, NIST, to research and develop new technologies that would allow retailers to offer biofuels using existing infrastructure, rather than refurbishing or building new infrastructure--essentially, putting the fuel in consumers' tanks at a savings to both retailers and consumers. 
   Mr. Chairman, it is important for us to forge a strong surge ahead to create alternative fuels because: 
   Alternative fuels like E85 ethanol and some biodiesel blends have different physical and chemical properties that often make them incompatible with much of our existing infrastructure. 
   These fuels can experience a variety of compatibility issues, such as corrosion of tank and pipeline materials, increased sediment buildup, clogging of filters, water and microbial contamination, varying flow properties, thermal and oxidative instability, and emissions volatility. 
   The cost of replacing or building new infrastructure is simply not feasible for fuel retailers, most of whom are small businesses. 
   Even when new infrastructure is installed, those costs may be passed along to consumers. 
   In 2006, EPA began implementing the transition to Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel--a fuel significantly cleaner, at 15ppm sulfur, than traditional diesel, at 500ppm sulfur. Although this transition has been largely successful thus far, it is still possible that as ULSD moves from the refinery through pipelines, tanks, and trucks, it may absorb enough residual sulfur to exceed the new EPA limit. 
   However, there is currently no affordable, real-time mechanism for testing the sulfur content of diesel fuel at the pump. 
   H.R. 547 directs EPA and NIST to develop an affordable, portable, quick, and accurate way to test the sulfur content in diesel fuels. 
   If our country wants to decrease our dependence on foreign oil, we must get serious about creating the infrastructure necessary to distribute and dispense alternative fuels. H.R. 547 will help achieve these goals using research and development for alternative fuels and new technologies. 
   Mr. Chairman, H.R. 547 is a sound bill that has been endorsed by the Society of Independent Gasoline Marketers of America, National Association of Convenient Stores, Renewable Fuels Association, Natural Resources Defense Council, Petroleum Marketers Association of America, NATSO representing travel plaza and truckstop owners and operators, the Coalition of E85 Retailers, and the American Petroleum Institute. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in support of H.R. 547.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILLIAM WILBERFORCE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 3887) to authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2008 through 2011 for the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, to enhance measures to combat forced labor, and for other purposes, as amended. 
   The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILLIAM WILBERFORCE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution, and I yield myself such time as I my consume. 
   It is all too common these days to see headlines in media around and about the rise of modern-day slavery. The stories are enough to turn anyone's stomach. Cambodian mothers driven by intense poverty selling their daughters into prostitution; children as young as 5 shipped to Nigeria to slave away in underground granite mines; hundreds of African boys and girls smuggled to Britain, forced to work as domestic servants; brutish uniformed soldiers dragging Burmese men and women from their homes to labor on government construction projects; and even though it is not directly related, women in Saudi Arabia victimized by getting the lash and being convicted even though they have been a victim of rape and being utilized as sex tools or toys and sometimes being utilized as slaves. 
   These nightmares unfolding thousands of miles from our shores are deeply tragic. But to many, they seem profoundly disconnected from our comfortable lives here in America. They are not. Human trafficking happens here at home right under our noses. 
   Let me, of course, thank Chairman Lantos and Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for working with Congressman Conyers and many of us on this important legislation. Let me thank Congressman Conyers for his constant and consistent leadership on this important legislation, and as well his continued work as the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, on which I serve with him. 
   Just a few weeks ago, a frightened young Tanzanian woman bravely came  before the Foreign Affairs Committee to testify. For more than 4 years, she had been forced to do domestic work without pay for a diplomat at the Tanzanian Embassy in Washington. She was denied medical care. And when this frail young woman complained that her feet were infected, she was forced outside without shoes to shovel snow. While we would all like to view this heart-rending case as an isolated incident, it is sadly part of a growing international trend in which millions of men, women and children are forced into sexual slavery, labor or indentured servitude each year. 
   Think for a moment if each of these individuals had a little camera on their back or their shoulder and we could truly see this woman with infected feet in icy snow shoveling snow, or someone who was never able to leave their house and never have any time off even here in the United States, or some of the other examples that we have already highlighted, we had a camera to see the harshness of it, the shame of it, the sadness of it, the cruelty of it. 
   Trafficking is the world's fastest growing international organized crime, and one of the most profitable, yielding up to $17 billion each year. Every year traffickers move between 700,000 and 2 million women and children across international borders for the purpose of serving in the sex trade or in forced labor. Congress has worked for nearly a decade to ramp up our country's efforts to prevent trafficking, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. 
   With approval of the bill before the House today, we can redouble these efforts and dramatically increase the ability the United States has to work to end the scourge of modern-day slavery. H.R. 3887 requires the administration to compile data from every U.S. agency, international organizations and private sources so that the executive branch can prepare a comprehensive analysis of trafficking patterns. This will help us better understand where victims are actually going and how to free them. It also provides help for countries to prevent trafficking by registering vulnerable populations that currently go unrecognized so that potential victims can be identified and educated. And it provides assistance to increase inspections abroad where forced labor occurs to help trafficking victims from slave-like conditions. 
   The legislation also prevents new visas for domestic servants for diplomats in the United States who belong to any embassy where abuse of such workers occurs. This will encourage self-policing of such embassies by their ambassadors. 
   The bipartisan bill before the House will not end trafficking overnight but it will dramatically increase America's ability to stop trafficking here at home and to work with other countries to battle this rapidly growing international crime.     
   The legislation shows that it is still possible for Republicans and Democrats to work together to get something big and important done and to save lives. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me thank my good friend and colleague, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, Chris Smith, for his extraordinary leadership on the trafficking issue for many years and for his many contributions to this important legislation. Let me also thank Chairman Payne for working with him on this issue and working together with the full committee. 
   Two centuries ago, William Wilberforce moved mountains to convince the British Parliament to ban slavery in the United Kingdom. In fact, there is a Historically Black College named after him: Wilberforce University. More than 140 years ago our Nation adopted a 13th amendment banning slavery right here at home. But slavery in many forms still stubbornly persists in our country, in Britain, and in nations around the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. Modern-day slavery must end. Our country already plays a leadership role in bringing about this supremely moral objective, but we simply must do more. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILLIAM WILBERFORCE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge the complete passage of this legislation, and I thank my colleagues for their convictions and their messages on the floor today. 
   Might I add for my colleagues' information, there are about 17,500 individuals trafficked in the United States, and we believe 50 percent of those may be children. In this legislation, we have language to combat the trafficking of our children. 
   Along with the other tragic stories we have heard today, we must be able to support our children and prevent the trafficking of our children. 
   I thank the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Zoe Lofgren) for her efforts in this area, and I include an article from the San Jose Mercury News for the Record.  
   Reaching Across Party Lines To End Modern-Day Slavery  
   They are age-old stories. Women brought to the Bay Area from China with false promises of life in a far-off land, only to be trapped in prostitution. Latino men laboring in debt bondage on ranches and farms in inland valleys. These stories may be redolent of the Gold Rush and frontier days, but in fact are situations that have been uncovered in present-day California. Some call it human trafficking, perhaps to make the crime less disturbing to confront. We call it modern slavery. It must be stopped. 
   Especially in the past decade, federal criminal civil rights prosecutions have uncovered cases of enslavement across the country. The litany of cases goes on and on, each one equally tragic: Mexican women forced to serve up to 50 men each day in dingy brothels in New York; African teenagers held in servitude as nannies in Washington, D.C.; American women and girls lured onto the streets with promises of love and glamour only to be held in prostitution through coercive force; African-American men laboring in orange groves of Florida trapped by drug addiction and ``company-store'' debts; Asian workers trapped in sweatshop garment factories in American Samoa and Saipan; Honduran women forced to drink and dance with clients in dance halls in Texas; and mentally ill white Americans forced to work on a Kansas farm. 
   From the beginning, the promise of freedom enshrined in the 13th Amendment has protected everyone in the United States, whether African-Americans, Latinos, Asians or Europeans. 
   Slavery might seem like a closed chapter in our nation's history, but it is worth remembering that the civil rights movement was only possible after the NAACP and the FBI worked together during the Roosevelt administration to dismantle the system of sharecropping and peonage in the American south. 
   Even today, farmworker advocates routinely have to fight against enslavement in the fields before they can address other concerns that the migrant community faces. Asian-American community activists and legal service providers have built their efforts upon the successful liberation of workers from the notorious El Monte sweatshop more than a decade ago. 
   The Constitution's promise of freedom is written in the suffering of all of those who have been held in bondage. As a country we  owe it to them to never stop fighting against servitude and slavery. 
   This week, the House of Representatives will consider a bill that we are co-sponsoring to update our anti-slavery statutes, the William Wilberforce Act. Named in honor of the famous English legislator who fought the transatlantic slave trade in the 19th century, the proposed law will provide new tools to protect against modern slavery. The law will protect people in the United States, both in the immigrant community and among American citizens, and will provide foreign aid and diplomatic tools to combat slavery and trafficking overseas as well. 
   The Wilberforce Act protects workers, ensures compassionate immigration treatment for children, and allows for the reunification of victims and their families. The bill delivers on the promise of freedom by creating tough new enforcement tools to punish exploitation, whether by unscrupulous labor recruiters, diplomats who abuse their servants or brutal pimps. 
   The bill provides resources so that non-governmental organizations, federal and local law enforcement and the faith community can work together to liberate victims and bring their traffickers to justice. In our congressional districts--in the South Bay and Sacramento--such interdisciplinary task forces have begun the important work of implementing state and federal anti-trafficking statutes. The Wilberforce Act will allow them to intensify their efforts. 
   There are some who feel that there is no room for bipartisanship in Washington. Some say that the political parties are so far apart as to preclude any cooperation at all, especially on legislation that combines compassionate and pragmatic immigration solutions with tough law enforcement standards. The Wilberforce Act disproves that notion. We will continue to work together to ensure that no one is held in bondage in California or elsewhere. 
   Coretta Scott King once said ``Freedom is never really won--you earn it and win it in every generation.'' We are proud that the California congressional delegation can come together across party lines to lead the fight to guarantee the constitutional promise of liberty for all.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WILLIAM WILBERFORCE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3887, the William Wilburforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2007. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Lantos, for introducing this important, bipartisan legislation that will authorize appropriations for FY 2008-2011 for the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, enhancing measures to combat forced labor, as well as for your ongoing leadership on this and other crucial human rights issues. I am proud to join over 40 of my colleagues in co-sponsoring this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, the issue of the trafficking of persons is one of the utmost significance, one which no nation is exempt from. Within the United States, we pride ourselves on overcoming the historic stain of slavery, and we are comforted by the thought that while others may persist in this repulsive practice, we do not. This however, is simply not the case. According to the GAO, ``as many as 17,500 people are believed to be trafficked into the United States each year.'' The trafficking of persons is our problem; they are forced through our borders and used by our people. This extreme injustice can no longer go unnoticed. 
   The flow of human trafficking is no surprise; traffic flows from the less industrialized countries to the more industrialized countries. This fact makes the issue of human trafficking a problem for all nations alike on a political, social, and moral level. The U.S. Department of State estimates that 800,000 people are trafficked across national borders every year, in addition to the reported millions of people trafficked within their own countries. The trafficking industry generates billions of dollars annually, and, together with drugs and weapons, is now a leading source of profits for organized crime. According to most analysts, the largest number of victims trafficked internationally come from Asia, though significant numbers of women and girls trafficked to work in the commercial sex industry come from the former Soviet Union and southeastern Europe. 
   One subset of trafficking, and one of particular interest to the United States, is trafficking for forced labor, which the International Labor Organization defines as ``any situation in which work is carried out involuntarily under the menace of a penalty.'' The ILO estimates that some 12.3 million people have been the victims of forced labor, with agriculture, construction, domestic service, restaurants, and manufacturing sectors being the most prominent industries into which forced labor is trafficked. 
   In March of this year, the Committee on Homeland Security, on which I am a senior Member and I serve as Chairwoman of a subcommittee, held a hearing on the crossing of borders and victims of trafficking which produced a meaningful discourse on horrific implications of the trafficking of persons and sought to address said issues. However, 7 months later, the issue is not resolved. The current policy of the United States, under the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000, allows the government to support many types of anti-trafficking domestically and overseas. However, much more must be done. The GAO currently reports that, while the government allocated funds to combat trafficking, there was an overemphasis by the government on sex slavery, which came at a price for the majority of others who are a victim of human trafficking. 
   Reliable information and independent evaluations of the success of the United States in combating this human atrocity have been hard to come by. While the State Department points to progress by citing the increase of countries with anti-trafficking initiatives and an increase in the number of arrests and convictions for human traffickers, the GAO report cites a less optimistic reality. The U.S. Government has yet to develop a coordinated, interagency response to combat trafficking overseas or a systematic way to evaluate the effectiveness of its anti-trafficking policies. In addition, a July 2007 GAO report entitled ``Monitoring and Evaluation of International Projects Are Limited, But Experts Suggest Improvements,'' found that monitoring mechanisms are lacking in U.S.-funded international projects, and that the U.S. and international organizations have encountered difficulties collaborating with host governments that often lack the resources, capacity, and/or political will to address trafficking. 
   Given the very real and persistent nature of the crime of human trafficking, it is our responsibility as Members of the Congress of the most powerful nation in the world to address and resolve this atrocity once and for all. Nearly 150 years after our great country abolished slavery at home, it is our job to once again be a beacon of progress and hope and no longer allow one man to profit from the suffering of another. 
   I believe that this legislation makes important strides towards addressing this serious problem. After hearing the profoundly disturbing testimony presented before the Committee on Foreign Affairs in a hearing on this issue earlier this year, I am particularly pleased that this legislation includes provisions aimed at ensuring that individuals are trafficked into the United States to work in diplomatic missions and embassies. I an extremely concerned about this issue, and I look forward to working further with my colleagues to establish a mechanism capable of preventing such abuses in the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, this important reauthorization speaks directly to a serious but often hidden problem that we face, on both a national and an international level. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STREAMLINING OF SAFETY ACT AND ANTI-TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENT PROCESSES -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 599, to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to streamline the SAFETY Act and anti-terrorism technology procurement processes. 
   I would like to thank my friend from Rhode Island, Mr. LANGEVIN, for introducing H.R. 599 which is essential to the exercise of our oversight responsibility over the Department of Homeland Security and critical in ensuring our great Nation's preparation for future terrorist threats and attacks. 
   This bill serves largely to rearrange and streamline the Support for Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies (SAFETY) Act of 2002. The SAFETY Act was implemented to protect the American people from terrorism by providing incentives for the development and deployment of anti-terrorism technologies for homeland security by limiting the liability of providers of qualified anti-terrorism technologies from claims arising out of acts of terrorism. 
   Despite our legislative intent that the SAFETY Act would pave the way for innovative development of key anti-terrorism technologies by addressing businesses' liability concerns, unfortunately industry was skeptical about the burdens imposed by the SAFETY Act's application process as implemented by the Department of Homeland Security. Regrettably, our high expectations for the SAFETY Act were not met and issues were raised about the excessively burdensome and slow evaluation and approval of applications by the Department's Office of SAFETY Act Implementation, OSAI, during the September 2006 joint hearing before the Homeland Security Subcommittees on Management, Integration, and Oversight and Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology. 
   Significant improvements have been made to make this process more user-friendly, less time-consuming, and less costly for business with the SAFETY Act Application Kit, Kit, and final rule. However positive these improvements implemented may have been, additional improvements are of paramount importance to ensure that Congress' legislative intent of the SAFETY Act is met. 
   H.R. 599 will better address our legislative intent of the SAFETY Act and facilitate the following improvements: Make the application process more user-friendly, less time-consuming, and less costly for businesses; make the review process more swift, efficient and effective; result in a significant increase in the volume of SAFETY Act applications; more closely integrate the application and review process with the procurement of such technologies and services; and bolster awareness of and confidence in the efficacy of the SAFETY Act program among producers of anti-terrorism technologies as well as Federal, state, and local government purchases of these technologies. 
   While implementing the SAFETY Act, DHS has faced substantial criticisms about delays and insufficient personnel. It is critical that the Department continue to address these persistent issues and increase the number of highly trained, full-time personnel dedicated to reviewing and approving SAFETY Act applications. It is imperative that quick turnaround times are maintained when responding to operational needs. The link between the SAFETY Act office and the procurement office must be improved. If a product meets a test for procurement officials, there is no reason why the SAFETY Act office should have to run through a new process to test the effectiveness of the product. 
   I commend Congressman LANGEVIN for sponsoring this legislation that requires the issuance of a Department directive to formalize the coordination between the Department's procurement office and OSAI. 
   Thus, I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 599, to direct the Secretary of Homeland security to streamline the SAFETY Act and anti-terrorism technology procurement processes. It is my hope and expectation that the passage of H.R. 599 will ensure the proper and timely implementation of the SAFETY Act of 2002.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STATE OF THE UNION ROAD MAP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in a few hours we will be listening to the President provide us with a road map for the State of the Union. I ask the President as he comes to this House and this place to recognize that we are in this together and we look forward to working together. 
   But it certainly should be part of the conscience of this body and of America that our soldiers remain in serious jeopardy, not because they have not done their job, but because we have not done ours. 
   When soldiers can be dressed in semi-American uniforms and wage attacks on unsuspecting U.S. military, we have a problem. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am asking for a serious consideration of the cutting of funds to this war in terms of its plus-up, a new direction, and a political diplomatic approach allowing Iraq to provide its own security with our technical support. 
   It is now time to celebrate the heroes of our military and to bring our soldiers home. I look forward to the message on the State of the Union. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PAYING TRIBUTE TO REVEREND WAITSTILL SHARP AND MARTHA SHARP FOR THEIR HEROIC EFFORTS TO SAVE JEWS DURING THE HOLOCAUST -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res, 52, which honors Rev. Waitstill Sharp and Martha Sharp for their outstanding heroism during the Holocaust. Although the couple lived safely with their two children in Massachusetts in 1939, both felt a calling to provide aid to those in need overseas. They traveled to Czechoslovakia and began providing food for the refugees fleeing the Nazi regime. However, when they arrived, the Nazis invaded Czechoslovakia and the situation grew more dangerous. 
   Instead of returning home, they found that they could better serve those in harm's way by helping them escape from the region. Despite the numerous life-risking situations and constant pursuit by the Gestapo, the couple stayed and succeeded in helping over 2,000 people escape danger throughout World War II. 
   I am pleased that they received official recognition as ``Righteous Among Nations'' last June, in the Yad Vashem ceremony in Israel, for truly their righteous actions are unparalleled, and we are incredibly honored to call them our fellow citizens. The Sharps were some of the first Americans to receive the award, setting an incredible example of righteousness and good will for all who follow them. 
   In addition, I would like to note the powerful words of their daughter, Martha Sharp Joukowsky, who accepted the award on their behalf. She reminded us that her parents' actions represent ``the unseen efforts of a much wider circle of people who made their work possible'' and that this ``is the kind of network that is needed again today to stop the slow genocide in Darfur.'' Sadly, we must recognize that suffering and oppression does not end with one war or one crisis in our past but continues into our present day. In order to truly pay tribute to the Sharps, we must acknowledge our present condition. So I urge my colleagues, as they remember the Sharps today, to also remember the urgency of the devastating situation in Darfur. I am sure if they were alive today, they would devote all their efforts to save the people there from this modern-day Holocaust. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 52, to honor Reverend and Mrs. Sharp for their heroic rescue efforts during World War II. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONGRESSIONAL PENSION ACCOUNTABILITY ACT -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 476, the ``Congressional Pension Accountability Act,'' which amends title 5 of the U.S. Code to make non-creditable for Federal retirement purposes any Member service performed by an individual who is convicted of any of certain offenses committed by that individual while serving as a Member of Congress. With the adoption of this legislation, we take another giant step in fulfilling the pledge we made to America last November to ``drain the swamp'' and end the ``culture of corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, today, this House will consider another critical component of ethics reform: congressional pension forfeiture. The bill introduced today is similar to the House bill introduced by my colleague Representative BOYDA on January 17, 2007--with two minor changes in response to Senate concerns. 
   First, subornation of perjury is added as a disqualifying offense. The second change, which extends the effective date of the legislation until January 2009, is necessary to satisfy the requirements of the 27th Amendment. That amendment requires that any law relating to the compensation of a Representative or Senator may not take effect until there has been an intervening congressional election. 
   With these specific changes, the bill: 
   Requires that Members convicted of certain Federal felonies related to the performance of their official duties forfeit their congressional pension rights under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System if the conduct constituting the  felony takes place after enactment and while the Member is in Congress and a conviction occurs after January 2, 2009; and 
   Applies to bribery of public officials and witnesses; wrongfully acting as agents of foreign principals; conspiracy to commit one of the offenses listed above; conspiracy to violate the post-employment prohibitions; and perjury and subornation of perjury in falsely denying committing one of these crimes. 
   While I believe it is important to punish those Members who violate the law, and in turn the public's trust, I am very pleased that this bill, through the Director of Office Personnel Management (OPM), provides protection for family members of those Members whose conduct warrants forfeiture of their pensions. 
   The intent of the bill is not to harm the family members of Members who are convicted of certain serious crimes. That is why the bill permits the Director of Office of Personnel Management, if it is determined to be necessary under the totality of the circumstances, to provide benefits to the Member's spouse and children, in which case the lump sum payment due the Member based on his or her own contributions would be reduced by an appropriate amount. 
   While avoiding harm to family members of the convicted Members, this critical measure to deny pension benefits to House Members convicted of corruption is another step towards comprehensive ethics reform. We promised the American people that we would restore a sense of respect and dignity to the House of Representatives. This measure is a meaningful first step towards restoring public trust in Congress and ensuring that taxpayers do not fund the pensions of Members convicted of corruption while serving the American people. While we seek to do the right thing by punishing perpetrators of serious illegal conduct, we also seek to deter Members from such behavior and to assure the American people that we serve at their behest and in their interest, not our own. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 476 is necessary because under current law a Federal elected official found to have betrayed the public trust is eligible to receive taxpayer-funded pensions for their service in Congress--even if they are convicted of serious abuses of power. The American people do not want us to reward those Members who have dishonored and disrespected both the law and the public's trust. 
   By passing this bill, this Congress is sending a message to the American people that we heard their voices loud and clear in November 2006 that we must win back their trust and act in the best interest of the American people. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 476 to clean up the American people's House and win back public trust. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PRESERVATION OF RECORDS OF SERVITUDE, EMANCIPATION, AND POST-CIVIL WAR RECONSTRUCTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 390, the Preservation of Records of Servitude, Emancipation, and Post-Civil War Reconstruction Act. I support H.R. 390 because it will protect a vast amount of genealogical information from this period in our Nation's history. This bill authorizes the National Archives to do two things: (1) to use necessary resources to preserve, maintain and electronically catalogue these important records, and (2) to distribute grants to the States, academic institutions, and genealogical associations in order to preserve and establish online databases of their own important local records. 
   While most Americans can learn about their genealogy through already well-archived documents like certificates of birth, death, or marriage, African-Americans have more difficulty with this, due to our Nation's history of slavery and discrimination. African-Americans seeking information about their ancestors must instead turn to less well-archived records such as documents written by former slave owners. These records are often not very accessible, disorganized, or in poor condition, and so it is important that we make every effort to adequately archive the familial records of so many of our Nations' citizens. 
   This bill would be the first national effort to preserve and protect this important part of our nation's history, and I thank Mr. LANTOS, the gentleman from California, for introducing it. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill, and I look forward to seeing it passed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CUT OFF FUNDING FOR THE IRAQ WAR -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow we will receive the constitutional address from the executive, and I hope tomorrow that an olive branch will be extended to this Congress, an equal branch of government. 
   This weekend has seen some 25 U.S. soldiers fall in battle. To their families and their loved ones, I mourn their loss. They are heroes. And so I rise to thank the United States military for heroically and courageously doing their job. 
   Now it is time for the Congress to be heroic and courageous and cease the funding of this ill-fated war. We are now to reject any suggestion that continued funding protects our soldiers. Unless the President has a political and diplomatic solution, no amount of military force is going to resolve this sectarian fight. 
   I vote for cutting off the funds. I vote for a courageous and heroic Congress  to save the lives of the young men and women of America, and I thank them for their valiant and courageous service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL MENTORING MONTH 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 29, to support the goals and ideals of National Mentoring Month. As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I would like to thank the gentlewoman from California, Mrs. DAVIS, for introducing this bill to highlight the importance of mentoring our youth. 
   Mr. Speaker, today many youth face temptations that often lead them down destructive paths and it is vitally important that we provide guidance that helps them make good decisions. 
   Mentors have been an integral part of society for many years, dating back to Ancient Greece. The Greek poet Homer wrote in the Odyssey, that when Odysseus left to fight in the Trojan War, he charged Mentor, his wise old friend, with the task of caring for his son, Telemachus, and teaching him wisdom. Since then, the word mentor has come to mean a wise and responsible tutor or an experienced person who advises, guides, teaches, challenges, corrects, and serves as a model. 
   In our society today, mentors exist in many different environments. There are mentors in professional settings who guide apprentices by teaching them how to effectively perform in the workplace. There are mentors in academic settings who guide students, teaching them how to reach and maintain high scholastic achievement. There are mentors in community groups who guide their prot&#233;g&#233;s through life issues, teaching them how to be productive citizens. There are mentors in spiritual and church groups who advise others through their spiritual growth. In all cases, they are very important and essential to the success of the youth that they mentor. 
   Who needs mentors? 
   There are 35.2 million young people ages 10-18 in the U.S. today; of those young people: 1 out of 4 lives with only one parent; 1 out of 10 was born to teen parents; 1 out of 5 lives in poverty; 1 out of 10 will not finish high school. 
   About half of young Americans--17.6 million young people--want or need caring adult mentors to help them succeed in life. Of those 17.6 million young people, only 2.5 million are currently in formal mentoring relationships. 
   That leaves 15.1 million youth still in need of formal mentoring relationships. We call this our nation's ``mentoring gap.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, imagine if every child had a mentor--just one person whom they could look up to and go to for advice and guidance. Imagine how many young lives could be positively impacted. We could create the avenues and encouragement to ensure that all of our children receive the proper education. Too many of our youth are not being properly advised and guided on the importance of getting an education. 
   Mentors can help give those youth living in poverty to strive towards a brighter future for themselves. Every child could benefit from having someone in his or her life to turn to for advice and help in the time of need. 
   National research has shown that children who have mentors are more confident in their  academic performance, able to get along better with their families, 46 percent less likely to begin using illegal drugs, 27 percent less likely to begin using alcohol and 52 percent less likely to skip school. The positive relationships and reinforcement that mentors provide is clearly effective. 
   I applaud the efforts of the mentors in our nation who encourage and motivate our youth to realize their worth and become productive citizens. I urge my colleagues to join me in thanking and supporting them by passing this resolution, H. Res. 29. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF CATHOLIC SCHOOLS -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rIse today in support of H. Res. 51, which honors the contributions of Catholic schools. Catholic schools not only ensure that their students are equipped with a superior scholastic education, but also emphasizes the moral, physical, intellectual and social development of America's youth. This bill honors and supports the goals of Catholic Schools Week, an event co-sponsored by the National Catholic Education Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. 
   Education is a very important value that should be emphasized to American young people. This bill congratulates Catholic schools, students, parents, and teachers for their role in ensuring that American students remain competitive in a global marketplace while emphasizing their character development. 
   I commend Congressman LIPINSKI for sponsoring this bill which promotes and encourages education. Education is the pathway to a better future and an American ideal is for students of every background and race to have the opportunity to access equal education. Catholic schools have strived to maintain diversity with more than 27 percent of school children enrolled in Catholic schools from minority backgrounds. 
   Supporting this bill sends a message that we care about the education of American students. Not only do Catholic schools educate Catholic youth, but 14 percent of those children who attend Catholic schools are non-Catholic. We must keep in mind that Catholic schools educate America's young people and ensure that they have a brighter future. Catholic schools have ensured that they are well equipped to face the rigorous challenges after graduation while contributing to their character development and helping to raise responsible citizens who give back to our communities and the world. 
   Thus I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting and honoring the contributions of Catholic schools. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am thinking about a teddy bear that is in my office, and I think about it because I remember going to a funeral when a mother placed a teddy bear and a red fire truck in the coffin of her young fallen hero, a member of the United States military that lost his life in Iraq. 
   No, it is not the Iraq Caucus that is running this very poor and devastating agenda of this White House. Rather, I would like to say that I am proudly a member of the Iraq Caucus. And I thank Mr. McGovern, the Speaker of the House, Mr. Obey, and Mr. Murtha for understanding that our children are dying and that we must do something that faces the fact that our troops have won the victory. So I hope that we will debate H.R. 930 that says there has been a military success but this is a devastatingly wrong political mission that we are on. 
   The President has to listen. This is 90 days plus 180 days, 9 months to redeploy. That's fair. We will fund our troops. That's fair. It is time now to bring our troops home because we love our children and we love America.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2237, the ``Iraq Redeployment Act.'' I rise in strong support of this legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the American people. Last November, Americans went to polls by the millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a new direction and a change in the Bush administration's disastrous policy in Iraq. The new Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 1591, the Iraq Accountability Act. The President vetoed the bill, demanding instead a continuation of the ancient regime under which the Republican-led Congress gave him a blank check to mismanage the occupation and reconstruction of Iraq. 
   Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to escalate and continue the war ad infinitum. It is long past time for change in Iraq. It is time for the people and government of Iraq to take primary responsibility for their own country. It is time for the President to recognize the reality on the ground in Iraq. The time when a surge in troops is useful and necessary is past. It is now time to redeploy our troops and launch a diplomatic surge for national and political reconciliation in Iraq. H.R. 2237 will help achieve this goal and that is why I support the measure. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of all members of Congress. The Framers understood that while the military does the fighting, a nation goes to war. That is why the Framers lodged the power to declare war in the Congress, the branch of government closest to the people. They knew that the decision to go to war was too important to be 
   left to the whim of a single person, no matter how wise or well-informed he or she might be. 
   Four years ago, President Bush stood under a banner that proclaimed ``Mission Accomplished.'' If the mission was to further place our troops in harm's way at the hands of insurgents and sectarian violence, then it is mission accomplished. After spending more than $400 billion dollars sacrificing the lives of 3,381 of America's finest citizen-soldiers, what have we accomplished and where are we headed? 
   I cannot support the President's waging of a war that has no clear direction, does not meet the benchmarks that the President set, and has no visible target. 
   Four years after launching the invasion, conquest, and occupation of Iraq, the evidence is clear and irrefutable: the preemptive invasion of Iraq, while a spectacularly executed military operation, was a strategic blunder without parallel in the history of American foreign policy. This is what can happen when the Congress allows itself to be stampeded into authorizing a president to launch a preemptive war of choice. 
   It is time to change our strategy in Iraq. It is time to engage the key stakeholders in the Middle East and make real strides towards securing a just and lasting peace in Iraq and for the Iraqi people. And most important, bring our troops home so they can be reunited with their families, friends, and neighbors. 
   That is why, Mr. Speaker, in February of this year I introduced H.R. 930, the ``Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007.'' Title I of my legislation, the ``Military Success in Iraq Act of 2007'' (M-S-I-A) or ``Messiah,'' offers an honorable deliverance from Iraq. Let me explain. 
   In October 2002, the Congress authorized the President to use military force against Iraq to achieve the following objectives: 
   1. To disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could threaten the security of the United States and international peace in the Persian Gulf region; 
   2. To change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors; 
   3. To bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001; 
   4. To ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al Qaeda; and 
   5. To enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq. 
   Every one of these objectives has long been accomplished. Iraq does not possess weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein has been deposed, captured, and dealt with by the Iraqi people. The American military has caught or killed virtually every member of al Qaeda in Iraq that was even remotely responsible for the 9/11 attack on our country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have been enforced. In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved. 
   Mr. Speaker, since the objectives which led Congress to pass the 2002 Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) have been achieved, I believe the authorization to use that military force expires automatically. My legislation affirms this proposition. Additionally, I believe, and my legislation provides, that it is the Congress that is the ultimate arbiter as to whether the objectives set forth in a congressional AUMF have been achieved. 
   Mr. Speaker, where a Congressional authorization to use military force has expired, the President must obtain a new authorization to continue the use force. My legislation requires the President to do that as well. Finally, my bill requires that if the Congress does not vote to reauthorize the use of force in Iraq within 90 days after determining that the objectives set forth in the 2002 AUMF have been achieved, all American armed forces in Iraq must be redeployed out of Iraq. Thus, under my legislation, an up-or-down vote must be held by the House and Senate to continue waging war in Iraq. 
   I am not talking about ``cutting and running,'' or surrendering to terrorists. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq forever or the foreseeable future. The Armed Forces won the war they were sent to fight. Their civilian leadership has not succeeded in winning the peace. That is why the United States should surge diplomatically and politically. 
   Title II of H.R. 930, the ``Diplomatic Surge for Political and National Reconciliation in Iraq Act,'' implements 12 of the most important recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Significantly, it creates a high-level Special Envoy for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq (SENPRI). This Special Envoy would consist of individuals like former Secretary of State Colin Powell, Madeleine Albright, or James Baker who would undertake the peaceful reconciliation of the major stakeholders in a free and democratic Iraq, particularly the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds. 
   All 6 of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait--have an interest in a stabilized Iraq because  as the Iraq Study Group report makes clear, none of these countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven for terrorists or hemorrhages millions more refugees who will stream into neighboring countries. 
   Mr. Speaker, every day when I walk into my office I am reminded of the courageous young men and women who have given their lives in service to our Nation. Outside my office I have displayed a poster-board that displays the names and faces of those who made the ultimate sacrifice. The poster-board is nearly full. I do not want to start another board. 
   That is why I rise in strong support of H.R. 2237. This legislation significantly reduces the U.S. military presence in Iraq over a 9 month period. The legislation does not abandon the Iraqi people. On the contrary, it recognizes the need to complete our mission by training Iraqi military forces and providing Special Forces to continue to pursue al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, and destroy terrorist networks working out of Iraq. The bill also provides the full array of non-military assistance for Iraq's economic and political reconstruction. 
   This legislation recognizes and respects Iraqi sovereignty. This bill also respects the decision-making judgment of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and U.S. military commanders in the field in determining where forces leaving Iraq might next be deployed. Finally, this legislation provides balance between the security priorities of the United States and Iraq to complete key military missions, and the political imperative to reduce the presence of U.S. military forces inside Iraq. 
   For all of these reasons, I strongly support H.R. 2237 and urge all members to do likewise.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote in favor of H.R. 2206, the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' By vetoing the bipartisan Iraq Accountability Act last week, the President vetoed the will of the American people. The President vetoed a responsible funding bill for the troops that would have provided more funding for our troops and military readiness than even the President requested. 
   By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President rejected a bill that reflects the will of the American people to wind down this war. By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President turned a deaf ear to the loud message sent by the American people last November. 
   The President demands a blank check to escalate the war in Iraq against the will of the Congress and the American people. The Constitution does not require it, he certainly has not earned it, and I am not prepared to give it to him. That is why I will proudly vote for H.R. 2206. 
   The legislation crafted by the chairman of the Appropriations Committee in consultation with the leadership and the members of the Democratic Caucus offers us a real chance to end the misguided invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can ``care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's international reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the responsibility for bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs and that is squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government. 
   Mr. Speaker, in threatening to veto this legislation, the President claims it will ``undermine our troops and threaten the safety of the American people here at home.'' Coming from an administration that has been wrong on every important question relating to the decision to launch the Iraq war as well the conduct of it, this claim is laughable. It is nearly as ridiculous as the President's often stated claim of ``progress'' in Iraq. The facts, of course, are otherwise. The U.S. death toll in Iraq reached 104 for April--making it the deadliest month of the year and one of the deadliest of the entire war. It is therefore little wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans disapprove of the way the President is handling the war. But more important, the President's claim that the Iraq Accountability Act undermines our troops and threatens the safety of the American people here at home is simply not true. 
   Republican Senator CHUCK HAGEL recently returned from Iraq and paints a bleak picture: ``This thing is coming undone quickly, and [Prime Minister] Maliki's government is weaker by the day. The police are corrupt top to bottom. The oil problem is a huge problem. They still can't get anything through the parliament--no hydrocarbon law, no de-Baathification law, no provincial elections.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, many of the Nation's most highly respected generals and several leading Republicans have endorsed the House Democratic majority's approach; all of them oppose the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. Take, for example, MG John Batiste, U.S. Army, (Ret.):  
   This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. It acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing the nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and Marine Corps are at the breaking point with little to show for it, and that our military alone will never establish representative government in Iraq. The administration got it terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to their constitutional responsibilities.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2007. H.R. 2082 authorizes the largest amount for intelligence ever considered in a single bill, which just goes to show you how important intelligence has become to our national security and how serious the new Democratic majority is about protecting the homeland and defending the nation. 
   H.R. 2082 promotes responsible budgeting and oversight by shifting resources from the supplemental to the base budget--allowing officers in the field to plan their operations properly, particularly in the counterterrorism arena, and allowing Congress to review funding requests.  
   The bill makes key investments to strengthen intelligence by adding funds to both CIA and military elements for Human Intelligence (HUMINT) training. We increase our investments in language training for collectors and analysts and in language translation capabilities. We also add funding for sending additional analysts overseas. The bill also strengthens counterintelligence field operations. 
   Madam Chairman, H.R. 2082 promotes efficiency and effectiveness of intelligence programs by streamlining acquisition, trimming the fat from ineffective programs, eliminating redundant activities, requiring greater strategic focus in some key areas. 
   Madam Chairman, this bill does not, as some claim, make deep cuts in any intelligence programs. In one area, related to supplemental funding for Iraq, the bill reflects bipartisan concerns about excessive spending on programs that lack a strategy or metrics for evaluating its effectiveness. These funds are shifted to enhance coverage of other global challenges, such as Iran, Russia, East Africa, and Asia. 
   The bill promotes accountability by requiring quarterly intelligence updates to Congress on nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea. And it requires the CIA Inspector General to conduct an audit of each covert action program not less than once every three years. 
   Finally, Madam, Chairman, H.R. 2082 requires reports to Congress on the use of contractors in the Intelligence Community. It requires a strategy for implementing a multi-level security clearance system--to allow patriotic Americans to serve as translators or linguists in the intelligence community. I think it important also that H.R. 2082 promotes diversity in the intelligence community by requiring a strategic plan for implementing the recommendations of a key diversity panel. 
   Last, the H.R. 2082 follows the recommendations of several former military commanders in requesting that the National Intelligence Council produce a National Intelligence Estimate on national security impact of global climate change. 
   Madam Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2082 and the rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, I thank the sponsor of this legislation. 
   Human resources and human intelligence are a key element to the security of this Nation. Air America employees represent the human resources aspect. 
   This is a thoughtful amendment that suggests that we should study the question of whether or not these individuals in the service of their country should be given these kinds of benefits. 
   From the perspective of the Department of Homeland Security and Homeland Security Committee, human intelligence is important. And I want to thank the Chairperson of the full committee for this very important bill that focuses on funding intelligence and also funding human intelligence. 
   Might I also say in closing, as I support the gentlelady's amendment, I think it would also be important that we look closely at professionals as they leave the CIA, and question whether or not tell-all books are in the best interest of this Nation, whether language such as ``slam dunk'' should be investigated. And I hope, as we pursue the idea of oversight, that we'll look into the utilization of such information in tell-all books that provide such prosperity for people who've been in the service of this country. I hope we will investigate that. But when we have good employees like those of Air America, we should support them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished Speaker, the distinguished chairman of the full committee, and certainly my colleagues who are here, because I believe that there should be a sense of honesty and integrity that is attributed to all of my colleagues, despite their positions on this issue. 
   I rise today, Mr. Chairman of the full committee, acknowledging that my full statement will be put into the Record. But I really want to engage in a dialogue and a discussion because I am grateful that this committee, looking at Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's legislation and Congressman Davis' legislation was thoughtful as it relates to the Constitution. And that is what the American people ask us to do: they want us to be thoughtful as it relates to the Constitution; they want us to be fair. 
   Many people have heard of this as the D.C. Voting bill, but they may not be aware of the provision that deals with Utah, people there who have not had an opportunity to cast their vote, one person-one vote. That is what this is all about. It is a simple question of allowing those who pay taxes, whose blood rains on the front lines around the world for our freedom, to have the constitutional privilege of voting. 
   Now, you will hear those who oppose suggest that there is a provision in the Constitution that indicates the word ``States,'' and that voting is, if you will, attributable to the word ``States.''  We have already heard the historical perspective, you have already been told to ask the people of Maryland, but there is another constitutional provision. And so you have interpretations that will allow scholars to have a scholarly debate. 
   The other constitutional provision indicates that this Congress does have the authority to provide, if you will, a balance of power, a sense of fairness to the nonvoting people of the District of Columbia. 
   I would hope that we, who are constitutionally grounded, a democracy that has lasted now 400 years-plus, would err on the side of giving rights to people who are deserving of those rights, their birthright being that they are American citizens. That is why I come to the floor of the House to challenge and to chime these words: We all are created equal, with certain inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That is a declaration of independence, and the Constitution says we formed this body to create a more perfect Union. Can we be in a perfect Union if there are citizens of the United States who are not able to cast their vote? I ask my colleagues to consider that, and I ask us to support enthusiastically H.R. 1905, to err on the side of the birthright of American citizens and the right to vote.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1905, the ``District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007,'' and thank the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee for his leadership in shepherding this important piece of legislation to the floor. Today we remove a stain that has blighted our Nation for more than 200 years. Today, we vote to end 2 centuries of shame and correct an injustice to the citizens of the District of Columbia. 
   H.R. 1905 permanently expands the U.S. House of Representatives from 435 to 437 seats, providing a new, at-large seat to Utah and a vote to the District of Columbia. Based on the 2000 Census, Utah is the state next in line to enlarge its Congressional delegation. The bill does not give the District statehood, nor does it give the District representation in the Senate. Rather, in H.R. 1905 Congress is simply treating the District as a Congressional district for the purposes of granting full House representation, as it can pursuant to the grant of plenary power over the District of Columbia conferred by the Constitution in Article I, section 8, clause 17. 
   At the outset, let me address the claim that H.R. 1905 is a weak foundation upon which to base the District's voting rights in the House because it is a statutory rather than a constitutionally based remedy. The argument should be rejected for the simple reason that it makes the perfect the enemy of the good. It is like asking a person to remain homeless while she saves to buy a house even though she has enough money to rent an apartment. 
   Mr. Speaker, let us not lose sight of one indisputable and shameful fact: nearly 500,000 people living in the District of Columbia lack direct voting representation in the House of Representatives and Senate. Residents of the District of Columbia serve in the military, pay billions of dollars in Federal taxes each year, and assume other responsibilities of U.S. citizenship. For over 200 years, the District has been denied voting representation in Congress--the entity that has ultimate authority over all aspects of the city's legislative, executive, and judicial functions. 
   Mr. Speaker, if a person can be called upon to pay Federal taxes and serve in the armed forces of the United States, then he or she should at least have the opportunity to vote for a representative who could at least cast a symbolic vote in this chamber on critical matters facing our Nation. Issues like war and peace, equality and justice. 
   Mr. Speaker, taxation without representation is tyranny. It is unconscionable that more than a half million American citizens are being unconscionably denied a vote and a voice in the most important legislative body in the world. 
   As a supporter of freedom, democracy, and equality, I believe that it is long overdue for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have a representative in Congress who can vote on the vital legislation considered in this body. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is wrong that we must be reminded daily by license plates in the District of Columbia that ``Taxation without representation is tyranny.'' The people in Boston felt so strongly about this in 1775 that they rebelled in Boston Harbor, launching the ``Boston Tea Party.'' 
   The principle that political authority derives from the consent of the government is no less applicable when it comes to the District of Columbia. Let us be clear. There is no dispute that hundreds of thousands of American citizens reside in the District of Columbia. We all agree that universal suffrage is the hallmark of a democratic regime, of which the United States is the world's leading exemplar. 
   None of us believes it is fair that citizens of the District of Columbia pay Federal taxes, risk life and limb fighting wars abroad to protect American democracy and extend the blessings of liberty to people living in foreign lands. In short, there is no moral reason to deny the citizens of the District of Columbia the right to full representation in Congress. The only question is whether Congress has the will and the constitutional authority to do so. As I will discuss, Congress has always had the constitutional authority. For the last 12 years, we have not had the will; but now we do. 
   I. CONGRESS CAN GRANT VOTING RIGHTS TO THE DISTRICT UNDER THE DISTRICT CLAUSE
   As Professor Dinh argued in his powerful testimony before the Judiciary Committee, Congress has ample constitutional authority to enact H.R. 1905 under the Constitution's ``District Clause.'' Art. I, &#167; 8, cl. 17. The District Clause empowers Congress to ``exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District'' and thus grants Congress plenary and exclusive authority to legislate all matters concerning the District. The text, history and structure of the Constitution, as well as judicial decisions and pronouncements in analogous or related contexts, confirms that this broad legislative authority extends to the granting of Congressional voting rights for District residents. 
   The District Clause, which has been described by no less a constitutional authority as Judge Kenneth Starr as ``majestic in its scope,'' gives Congress plenary and exclusive power to legislate for the District. Courts have held that the District Clause is ``sweeping and inclusive in character'' and gives Congress ``extraordinary and plenary power'' over the District. It empowers Congress to legislate within the District for ``every proper purpose of government.'' Congress therefore possesses ``full and unlimited jurisdiction to provide for the general welfare of citizens within the District of Columbia by any and every act of legislation which it may deem conducive to that end,'' subject, of course, to the negative prohibitions of the Constitution. 
   Although the District is not a state for purposes of Congress's Article I, section 2, clause 1, which states that members of the House are chosen ``by the people of the several States,'' this fact is not dispositive of Congress's authority under the District Clause to give residents of the District the same rights as citizens of a state. Since 1805, the Supreme Court has recognized that Congress has the authority to treat the District like a state, and Congress has repeatedly exercised this authority. No court has ever sustained a challenge to Congress's exercise of its power under the District Clause. 
   Two related Supreme Court cases illustrate this point. In Hepburn v. Ellzey, 6 U.S. 445 (1805), the Court held that the diversity jurisdiction provision of Article III, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution excluded citizens of the District of Columbia. The Court observed, however, that it was ``extraordinary'' that residents of the District should be denied the same access to federal courts provided to aliens and state residents, and invited Congress to craft a solution, noting that the matter was ``a subject for legislative, not judicial consideration.'' 
   Congress accepted that invitation 145 years later and enacted legislation that explicitly granted District residents access to federal courts on diversity grounds. That legislation was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1949 in National Mutual Insurance Company v. Tidewater Transfer Company, 337 U.S. 582 (1949). A plurality of the Court led by Justice Jackson held that Congress could for this purpose treat District residents as though they were state residents pursuant to its authority under the District Clause. The two concurring justices would have gone even further; they argued that Hepburn should be overruled and that the District should be considered a state for purposes of Article III. 
   Tidewater strongly supports Congress's authority to provide the District a House Representative via simple legislation. As the plurality explained, because Congress unquestionably had the greater power to provide District residents diversity-based jurisdiction in special Article I courts, it surely could accomplish the more limited result of granting District residents diversity-based access to existing Article III courts. Similarly, Congress's authority to grant the District full rights of statehood (or grant its residents voting rights through retrocession) by simple legislation suggests that it may, by simple legislatipn, take the more modest step of providing citizens of the 
   District with a voice in the House of Representativ. Indeed, since Congress has granted voting representation to residents of Federal enclaves in Evans v. Cornman, 398 U.S. 419 (1970), and to Americans living abroad through the Overseas Voting Act, there is no reason to suppose that Congress has less ability to provide voting representation to the residents of the Nation's Capital.  
   II. CONGRESS MAY DIRECT THE NEXT-ENTITLED STATE TO ELECT ITS ADDITIONAL REPRESENTATIVE AT LARGE 
   H.R. 1905 also grants an additional congressional seat to the State of Utah as the next-entitled state and directs that State to elect its additional Representative at large, rather than creating an additional single-member district. Congress plainly has the authority to do so. This statutory scheme does not violate the ``one person, one vote'' principle. 
   As the Supreme Court held in Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U.S. 1 (1964), ``the command of Article I, Section 2 [of the Constitution], that Representatives be chosen `by the People of the Several States' means that as nearly as is practicable one man's vote in a congressional election is to be worth as much as another's.'' In that case the Court struck down a Georgia apportionment statute because it created a congressional district that had two-to-three times as many residents as Georgia's 9 other congressional districts. The Court stated:   
   The apportionment statute thus contracts the value of some votes and expands that of others. If the Federal Constitution intends that when qualified voters elect members of Congress each vote be given as much weight as any other vote, then this statute cannot stand.   
   ``One person, one vote'' concerns arise when congressional districts within a State contain different numbers of residents, diluting the voting power of residents in the district with more residents. In contrast, here the proposed temporary ``at large'' district in Utah does not dilute the voting power of any Utah voter. 
   When Utah holds its at large election for the new fourth seat, Utah voters may cast a vote in their existing district and in the State-wide election for the fourth seat. While it is true that the statewide ``at large'' district will necessarily contain more residents than the other districts, the establishment of that ``at large'' district would create no constitutional dilution concerns. Each person's vote in the ``at large'' district would have equal influence, and the opportunity to cast that vote would not alter in any way the value of that person's vote in her own smaller district. 
   Nor does a potential ``one person, one vote'' challenge arise on the ground that Utah residents vote in two elections while residents of other States with single-member districts would vote only once. First, the Supreme Court has never held that the ``one person, one vote'' principle applies to the apportionment process. Indeed, the Court has held that Congress is entitled to substantial deference in its apportionment decisions. Second, the proposed at large election does not give residents of the State more or less voting power than the residents of States with single-member districts. The example cited by Richard Bress, one of the witnesses who testified before the Judiciary Committee in support of the bill, illustrates why this is so. 
   Suppose that State A and State B have roughly the same population and are each entitled to four Representatives. State A holds an at-large election for all four of its representatives, while State B divides its Representatives and voters into four districts. State A's state-wide district would have a population four times the size of each district in State B. As compared to the single-district voter in State B, the ``at large'' voter in State A has a one-fourth interest in each of 4 representatives. The single-district voter in State B has a whole interest in one representative. But in both scenarios, each voter has, in the aggregate, one whole voting interest. 
   Similarly, as compared to a state with four single-member districts, the voters in Utah's existing three districts would have proportionately less Influence In the election of the representative from their own district, but would gain a fractional interest in the State's at-large representative. In short, Utah residents would have no more (and no less) voting power than residents of any other State. 
   III. CONCLUSION 
   For these reasons, I believe H.R. 1905 is constitutionally unassailable. Granting voting rights to the citizens of the District of Columbia is a matter of simple justice. I know it morally right. It is also long overdue. Let us end this injustice and be true to the better angels of our nature. I urge all members to vote to join me in voting for H.R. 1905.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FAILED FOREIGN POLICY -- (House of Representatives - April 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to be on the floor with such a distinguished Speaker. Just a few minutes ago, we cast a vote that, again, reaffirms the crucialness and the necessity of moving forward with the emergency supplemental. The motion states that this House, which it did, reaffirms the deadlines for the redeployment of the United States forces in Iraq that were contained in the House-passed emergency supplemental, a legislative initiative that captured, not the personal wants of individual Members, but responded to the immediacy of the crisis of the conflict in Iraq. 
   It is a commonsense document. And even now, in the backdrop of 198 brutally killed in the marketplace, most likely sustained by the false representation that there is now security in Baghdad, almost 200 persons died, which indicates, although our military strongly has defended its role and can claim a military success, we have a failed foreign policy. And so I rise today to proudly reaffirm my commitment to deadlines as relates to redeploying of our troops. 
   It may be that the military goes to battle, but, in fact, a nation goes to war. We owe the brave men and women of the United States military, the National Guard, the Reserves, the Air National Guard, and all aspects of the United States military, their families, the civilian force the obligation of a true and thoughtful policy that will work. The conflict in Iraq does not work. And the sadness is that even the government, the coalition government is falling apart. 
   Some may argue, of course, that that suggests that we should stay the course; that we will look like we are bending to the enemy. Those of us who understand the vastness of this crisis realize that we must never falter in our war against terror. We must never let al Qaeda win, but we cannot allow our soldiers to be the targets of a sectarian war. 
   Now, this legislation does not in any way tell the generals how to logistically move their troops. What it does do is give the policy commitment to the timelines to bring our soldiers home. 
   It is clear that the military action has already been a success. And I commend my colleagues to H.R. 930, my legislation, A Military Success Act of 2007 and A Diplomatic Surge Act of 2007. It is now time to declare a military victory. Our soldiers have discovered there are no weapons of mass destruction. Saddam Hussein has been deposed and been, if you will, displaced, and we have a government in place. But none of that can be, now, held for a reason that the soldiers must stay in place. 
   Logistically, the generals may decide to redeploy these troops to the border, redeploy them to Kuwait. We allow and also defend the right of the United States military to give a logistical response to our policy demand.  
   This is a demand of the American people. Sixty-nine percent of the American people, now, today, believe that we should leave Iraq. That is a gradual increase. I believe that Americans are patriots. They never cut and run. They will stand and defend their Nation. 
   But we have an obligation, as Members of Congress holding the purse strings, to never frivolously send our soldiers into battle. We have an obligation, as the emergency supplemental has done, to provide post-traumatic stress dollars, prosthetics, mental health needs, improving Walter Reed, helping military families, and, yes, helping children have universal access to health care. 
   We have a crisis in Iraq. It is a crisis made by the continuing failed policies of this administration. 
   Wake up. We owe a moral commitment to the soldiers on the battlefield. 
   I am proud to have made that vote. I will make it again. And, frankly, I am concerned that when the olive branch of conciliation has been extended to this administration to come up with a real resolution to solve this war, we get a blank check from them, or at least no response. 
   And so I ask my colleagues to stay the course on behalf of the American people and the patriots who are on the front line of Iraq. We owe them our duty to provide for them the right kind of road map. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (NATIONAL QUILT MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman from Arizona. I thank the sponsor of this bill. I add my appreciation and recognition of H. Con. Res. 209, expressing the sense of Congress that the Museum of America's Quilter's Society located in Kentucky should be designated as the National Quilter's Museum of the United States. 
   Having had the opportunity to have the Traveling Quilters from Alabama come to Houston, I know that quilting is a national treasure, and it is an important part of our history. It is important for this Congress each step of the way to remind Americans of how valuable their history is. 
   We happen to be in Black History Month; and I know that as we look to honor everyone's history, it is to say that Americans are united, we are one. So I am very proud to acknowledge this resolution and to support it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just got off the plane from Texas and I do want to make mention of H. Res. 954. As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, the Subcommittee on Immigration, and as a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I rise to honor the life of fallen Border Patrol agent Luis A. Aguilar, who lost his life in the line of duty at Yuma, Arizona, on January 19, 2008. Many times, Americans do not really understand that our Border Patrol agents put themselves in the line of fire, and they are, in fact, first responders on behalf of the people of the United States. 
   I want to give honor to his family, certainly to his fellow Border Patrol agents, and to acknowledge my deepest sympathy to them and as well to them as a family. As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I am forever reminded of their service and have been an advocate for providing them with more resources. We do need to get a complete response to immigration, both through border security and comprehensive immigration reform. 
   In conclusion, let me say that I want to express again my sadness in the loss of senior Border Patrol agent Luis A. Aguilar and again express my sympathy on behalf of all Americans. We are indebted to his service and, of course, we consider him a national hero. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE TOM LANTOS, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, so many of us have risen and expressed how heavy our heart is tonight. Those of us who served on the Foreign Affairs Committee with the late Chairman TOM LANTOS see every day, as we come into that room, his regalness, his royalty, but yet his humbleness. We also get to see the family, his wonderful staff, and his lovely and solid friend, bride, wife, and enormously important person, his wife, Annette. 
   I got to see them working together. I saw TOM's passion in the committee room. He was not afraid of hard issues, and I am so proud to have been able to have joined him as a member of his Human Rights Caucus and to serve in his absence on a number of occasions when we talked about the abuse of children around the world or the abuse and the violence against women around the world. 
   TOM was a fighter. We know that as the only Holocaust victim and survivor to have come to this place. He talked unwavering about human rights and the standing up against despots, and he never feared in doing so. The Human Rights Caucus became part of him. When you saw TOM walking, you knew he exuded a fight for human rights. 
   He also was concerned that we continue to fight in this Congress against oppressive regimes. So even though there are advocates for China and Russia, Burma, and certainly there is constant opposition from the Sudanese Government, he never wavered on Darfur. You heard someone say he was even arrested.     
   I've been proud to stand with him on these fights. 
   He led the fight to end wartime sex slavery by the military; another resolution recognizing the massacre of Armenians by the Ottoman Empire as genocide; and, yes, he held hearings condemning Internet giant Yahoo's complicity with Chinese oppression of dissidents. And I tell you, he didn't worry about whether that was a constituent; he only worried about human rights. 
   Thank you, Tom, for letting us know your family. I met his daughter, Katrina, and Dick in New Hampshire. What a wonderful spirit they had. I am certainly saddened by his loss, but the fighter he was should live in us. 
   TOM, rest in peace. May God bless you. We fight on with you.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE TOM LANTOS, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 975, ``expressing the condolences of the House of Representatives on the death of the Honorable Tom Lantos,'' and to express my profound sadness upon the passing of my extremely distinguished colleague. 
   Madam Speaker, it is with deep sadness that I mourn the passing of my colleague Congressman TOM LANTOS. Chairman LANTOS was an extraordinary leader, a man who demonstrated, by his life, that one individual truly can make a difference. As the only Holocaust survivor ever to serve in Congress, Congressman LANTOS brought a moral voice to Washington, and he relentlessly drew U.S. attention to those suffering throughout the world. It has been my extreme honor and privilege to serve on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, under Chairman LANTOS' leadership. 
   Since he was elected to Congress in 1981, Congressman LANTOS has used his position in Congress to combat violations of fundamental human rights. Almost immediately following his election, Congressman Lantos established the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, which, for over two decades, has focused congressional attention on struggles against oppressive regimes and human suffering across the globe, including in China, Russia, Burma, and Darfur. I have been proud to stand beside him, as a member of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, and I know my colleagues share my commitment to ensuring that his work here in Washington continues. 
   As a fierce advocate of human rights, he continually pressed the Bush administration to take steps to prevent the state-sanctioned massacre and rape of hundreds of thousands of people in Sudan's Darfur region. On April 28, 2006, I was honored to stand side by side with Congressman LANTOS and protest the role of the Sudanese Government in carrying out genocide in the Darfur conflict. 
   As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman LANTOS did not shy away from controversial issues. Under his leadership, the committee passed a resolution calling on the Japanese Government to end wartime sex slavery by its military, and another resolution recognizing the massacre of Armenians by the Ottoman Empire as genocide. He has brought landmark anti-trafficking legislation before the committee, held hearings condemning internet giant Yahoo!'s complicity with the Chinese suppression of dissidents, and, tomorrow, the committee is scheduled to consider a groundbreaking reauthorization of the PEPFAR global AIDS relief program. 
   Congressman LANTOS was a truly courageous man, and a true leader for our Nation. His legacy is best expressed in his own words, ``It is only in the United States that a penniless survivor of the Holocaust . . . could have received an education, raised a family and had the privilege of serving the last three decades of his life as a Member of Congress. I will never be able to express fully my profoundly felt gratitude to this great country.'' 
   I offer my condolences to the family of Congressman LANTOS: his wife Annette; his two daughters, Annette and Katrina, and 18 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren. I also join with other Members of Congress in mourning the passing of an extraordinary person, leader and colleague. 
   Thank you, Madam Speaker. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution, and in recognizing our distinguished colleague.  
   Rep. Tom Lantos (D-CA) Dies 
   Rep. Tom Lantos (D-CA), an important voice for Tibetan freedom, died today at the age of 80. He had served 14 terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   Born into a Jewish family in Budapest, Hungary, he twice escaped from a forced labor camp in Szob during the Nazi occupation of his country. The second time, he was sheltered by Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg. After the Soviet army liberated Hungary, he discovered that his parents and  most of his family had been killed during the occupation. 
   The only Holocaust survivor ever to serve in Congress, Rep. Lantos was chairman of the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was also co-chairman and founder of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, a group dedicated to raising awareness about human rights violations around the world. 
   Rep. Lantos was a tireless supporter of the Tibetan independence movement and His Holiness the Dalai Lama. His contributions are too numerous to count, so I'll point you to one of the most recent: his speech in San Francisco for the 2007 Tibetan Uprising Day. He also joined Richard Gere and Robert A.F. Thurman in talking about his friendship with and admiration for His Holiness as part of A&E Biography's 1997 documentary Dalai Lama: Soul of Tibet. In addition, Rep. Lantos was the driving force behind the awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to His Holiness last year. When the House of Representatives ultimately voted to give His Holiness the honor, he said: 
   ``In his quiet but persistent way, His Holiness the Dalai Lama has devoted his life to asserting the Tibetan people's rights, lifting their spirits and upholding their dignity. By his humble personal example, through his prolific writings and in his addresses to audiences in every corner of the earth, the Dalai Lama has provided exceptional service to humankind. Such a vast contribution to the betterment of our world deserves special recognition and support. After nearly three decades of friendship with His Holiness, I am deeply honored and proud to have rallied my colleagues to award him the Congressional Gold Medal. We can now look forward to the day when he once again meets with members of Congress--this time to stand before us all to receive this unique and well-earned honor.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE OF SENIOR BORDER PATROL AGENT LUIS A. AGUILAR -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 954, honoring the life of senior border patrol agent Luis A. Aguilar, who lost his life in the line of duty near Yuma, Arizona. Agent Aguilar's death serves as another stark reminder of the risks our front-line agents and officers face each day. 
   Aguilar was trying to place spike strips in the path of two vehicles believed to have illegally entered the country from Mexico when one of the vehicles hit him. Both vehicles drove back across the border into Mexico. After over 5 years of dedicated service in the United States Border Patrol, Luis Aguilar selflessly paid the ultimate sacrifice in service to the United States. 
   The fatal incident occurred about 20 miles west of Yuma in the Imperial Sand Dunes  Recreation Area near Andrade, California, just over the California state line from Arizona. This area is frequently used by smugglers carrying people or drugs. A half hour earlier agents had seen a brown Hummer and a red Ford F-250 pickup crossing from Mexico into the United States. The vehicles traveled west on Interstate 8, and the vehicles turned around, heading back the way they had come with the Border Patrol in pursuit. 
   Luis Aguilar resided in Somerton, Arizona, and is survived by his mother and father, his wife, Erica Aguilar, his two children, Luis and Ariana, his brother, senior Border Patrol agent Marco Antonio Aguilar, and his sister, Angie Aguila. 
   Border Patrol agents carry out the vital role of protecting our Nation's borders and ensuring the safety of the United States. Agents work devotedly and selflessly on behalf of the people of the United States, without regard for the peril or danger to themselves; and the United States will forever be grateful for the service of Luis Aguilar and mourn his loss. 
   I recognize the dedication and sacrifice made by the men and woman who have lost their lives while serving as United States Border Patrol agents. I honor Luis Aguilar for his service as a Border Patrol agent and for his sacrifice to the United States and extend my deepest condolences to the family of Luis Aguilar. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AIRPORT AND AIRWAY EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate the Ways and Means Committee for the good work they have done with the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on coming forward today and providing us with an opportunity to do the smart thing, and that is to provide this extension for this trust fund. 
   Yesterday, in my capacity on the Transportation Security Committee, I hosted the Transportation Security Administrator in my district at one of my large airports. Obviously, the infrastructure of airports, the safety of airports, travels parallel to the security of airports. This is a vital fund for cities like Houston, Texas, which happens to have one of the top 10 airports in the Nation. 
   Airports are sites used by millions and millions of Americans every single day, and therefore it is important that the delay of the actual completion of a final bill not be used to prevent the flow of dollars to protect our airports and provide safe and secure passage for our travelers. 
   I understand, as my good friend from New York has indicated, that the delay is in the Senate. This is the right direction to go. I applaud the Ways and Means Committee and Chairman Charlie Rangel, and I rise enthusiastically to support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMEMORATING THE COURAGE OF THE HAITIAN SOLDIERS THAT FOUGHT FOR AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE IN THE ``SIEGE OF SAVANNAH'' -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I join him as a fellow member of the Foreign Affairs Committee to applaud and congratulate the distinguished gentleman from Florida who has a long history of representing Haitians in Florida, and who has a long history of concern for the Haitian people both today and in the past. 
   As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and one who has traveled to Haiti and visited individuals who were incarcerated because of their beliefs in democracy, this commemoration is important because it reemphasizes the long-standing friendship between the United States and the Haitian people. 
   I am saddened by the journey that Haitians have had to take over the last decade from Baby Doc and the oppressive leadership that they have had in past years, and their desire of necessity to flee because of persecution to the United States; and then, of course, the double standard between the wet feet/dry feet immigration policies where many of them have been treated in a discriminatory fashion. 
   This accolade is long overdue. I might acknowledge the fact that this was in the early years of our beginning. It was in the dawn of October 9, 1779, that this battle was fought on the western outskirts of Savannah, what was unquestionably the second bloodiest battle of the entire 8 years of the American War for Independence. Can we imagine that. These brave soldiers left their soil, many, many miles away from our land, about 750 Haitian freemen fought alongside colonial troops against the British in the Siege of Savannah on October 9, 1779. In a single hour, there fell within the area of a few hundred square yards more dead and wounded than are credited to any other battlefield in the struggle for American independence except for Bunker Hill. The valor of these brave men deserve to be commemorated, and I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation. 
   Of course, we know that American history is intertwined with many brave persons from places far and wide. But I think this statement today also cements the importance of Haiti today as we fight against the extensive poverty that exists now today, as we try to assist them in building their democratic government, as we try to reemphasize a friendship between the United States and Haiti, and in essence apologize for some of the interventions that could be considered coups that resulted from policies utilized in this country. 
   I would say this is a very important statement that again reinforces the relationship and again talks about the bravery of these Haitian soldiers. 
   At a time when we are engaged in a global war on terror, joined by our friends and allies, it is imperative that we recognize the service and dedication provided in the past by foreign countries like Haiti. 
   Mr. Speaker, I close my words by congratulating Mr. Meek again for this outstanding legislation; but more importantly, thanking the Haitian people, even though it may be somewhat late.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 909, commemorating the courage of the Haitian soldiers that fought for American independence in the ``Siege of Savannah'' for Haiti's independence and renunciation of slavery, introduced by my distinguished colleague Congressman KENDRICK MEEK of Florida. This is to be commended because it helps to educate Americans about the significant contributions made by Haitian ancestors. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the early dawn of October 9, 1779, there was fought, on the then western outskirts of Savannah, what was unquestionably the second bloodiest battle of the entire 8 years of the American War for Independence. About 750 Haitian freemen fought alongside colonial troops against the British in the ``Siege of Savannah'' on October 9, 1779. In a single hour there fell within an area of a few hundred square yards more dead and wounded than are credited to any other battlefield in the struggle for American independence except for Bunker Hill. The valor of those brave men deserves to be 
   commemorated, and I am proud to cosponsor this legislation honoring their bravery and sacrifice. 
   The year before, the city of Savannah, Georgia, had been captured by a British expeditionary corps under Lieutenant Colonel Archibald Campbell. On October 9, 1779, there was an attempt to retake Savannah from the British. The siege itself consisted of a joint effort with America, France, and Haiti. This battle represents the Revolutionary War as an international conflict more than any other engagement of the Revolution. It was the first time the French fought alongside the colonial army. This battle reminds us that the contribution of foreign resources, men, money, and material helped lead to the eventual success of the American cause for independence. It is important to provide recognition for the efforts of Haiti and their role in helping to liberate America from British rule. 
   At a time in our country when we are engaged in a global war on terror, joined by our friends and allies, it is imperative that we recognize the service and dedication provided in the past by foreign countries like Haiti. Many of the foreign allied soldiers, including Haitians, who sacrificed during the process of America gaining freedom and independence, have not been recognized for their contributions to this Nation. Some were never told,  ``thank you'' for helping to better our society and contributing to our freedom. Too many were forgotten and unrecognized for their diligence, commitment and sacrifices. 
   As we continue to celebrate the month of February and Black History Month, let us be mindful of the Haitian soldiers and the numerous others of the African diaspora that renounced slavery and aided in the formation of our great Nation. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution honoring the courage of the Haitian soldiers who fought for American independence and renunciation of slavery .  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE ASIAN PACIFIC COMMUNITY AND THE IRAQ WAR -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me take this opportunity, before I address the question our soldiers in Iraq, to thank Mr. Honda for convening this special order on the Asian Pacific community of this Nation and to thank him for his leadership of the Asian Pacific Caucus, of which I am a member and to acknowledge the Asian Pacific community in Houston, Texas, a thriving community so diverse and so respected. 
   I am reminded of the unity that was exhibited as Katrina survivors who were Asian Pacific Islanders came into Houston. Both Mr. Honda and myself worked on the issue of language and representation and resources, and the Asian Pacific community in Houston was so united and so supportive so that these new visitors, these strangers in a different land, would feel welcome. 
   Let me also acknowledge that I have the privilege of representing not only a very strong Vietnamese business community, but also the original Chinatown in Houston. So my hat goes off and salutes the outstanding leaders in that community, scientists, educators, businesspersons, public servants, and, as well, I thank them for the wonderful service that they give and the opportunity to work together with them. This is an outstanding tribute to be able to honor the Asian Pacific Islander community in the month of May. 
   Let me also acknowledge that the Vietnamese community will have its first cultural event gala where it honors heroes and public servants from around the Nation. 
   I would hope that as we look to the greatness of America, we will find it in our hearts to be able to address the question of the tragedy in Iraq. It is a tragedy that continues to grow. Every time you turn the corner, turn the news on or read a newspaper article, it is disintegrating and deteriorating. 
   Today in the newspaper it says an Army general predicts a rise in casualties. So at the back of the surge the President says will have solved the conflict in Iraq, we will see, tragically in the words of Major General Rick Lynch, who is working with the 3rd Infantry Division, ``Casualties will climb as American troops dig into enemy territory as part of the stepped-up military operation ordered by President Bush in January.'' 
   His sentence does not say how we will resolve the conflict. It doesn't say that it results in any positive end. It doesn't say that we will be victorious in that effort, it says that the lives of Americans will be lost. We, as Americans, believe that when we go to war, the Nation goes to war. Therefore, it is important to have a mission to have a conclusion to that mission. 
   Compounded to that issue, we show that attacks killed eight U.S. troops. They kill them because they are being killed by IEDs. They kill them because there is no mission, there is no policy, there is no political policy. There is no end, there is no beginning. 
   So I ask the President to sit down with this Congress and be able to resolve this by, one, leaving in the language that says, we will redeploy the troops by July, 2007, or, at the latest, October, 2007, have a rational policy for exiting from the conflict that is causing the mounting lives that are lost. 
   In addition, lives are being lost in Afghanistan of a civilian population, lives of the civilian Iraqis are being lost, and there is no response from this administration. 
   While there they are wining and dining, I would simply ask in addition to that responsibility, let us find a conclusion to the war in Iraq by reconciliation and compromise between the executive and, of course, the Congress. We cannot tolerate any more headlines like this, mothers and fathers, husbands and wives are asking why, when there is no end. The soldiers are our heroes. They have done their job. We have said this over and over. 
   I commend to this body H.R. 930, my legislation, Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007. Declare a military victory, our soldiers have been victorious. Let them come home to yellow ribbons and celebrations and their families, have them prepared, stronger, increased, a stronger military, with the right kind of equipment. 
   Let the generals logistically plan how they will redeploy, possibly to the Kuwait borders and to the other borders, but let them come home. We are not trying to dictate to the generals how to redeploy, what the logistics would be, but we are only saying that the policy is a failed policy, and our soldiers must come home. No more headlines, Army general predicts rise in U.S. casualties, no more headlines eight troops dead and continuing to die with no solution and no end. 
   I ask my colleagues to review H.R. 930 and ask the President and this Congress to find a way that we can work together. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOMELESS VETERANS HOUSING AT SEPULVEDA AMBULATORY CARE CENTER PROMOTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1642, the ``Homeless Veterans Housing at Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center Promotion Act.'' 
   America's veterans have risked their lives for their country. They deserve the best treatment and support that we can offer them. Despite this, homelessness remains a pervasive problem among veterans, with many homeless veterans also fighting substance abuse problems. It is our responsibility, as our Nation's leaders, to work to ensure they receive the assistance they need. 
   This bill is an important step toward that goal. The Sepulveda Ambulatory Care Center, located in Los Angeles' San Fernando Valley, exists to provide care to veterans. It is currently the major outpatient facility for the 1.4 million veterans living in northern Los Angeles. The Center falls under the purview of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and includes education and research facilities, in addition to comprehensive ambulatory care. This facility serves a vital role for the region's veterans. 
   This bill would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to maintain a homeless housing project at the Sepulveda Center as a sober living facility for veterans only. H.R. 1642 also requires that this housing project be provided with adequate staffing and security. 
   This legislation is a necessary step in ensuring that our veterans receive the support that they need. I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AUTHORIZING USE OF CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL PEACE OFFICERS' MEMORIAL SERVICE -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 124, which authorizes the use of the Capitol grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service. 
   Peace officers, the sworn, public-sector officers entrusted with law enforcement authority and the power of arrest, risk their lives daily to protect our nation. These individuals, who are responsible for safeguarding the rights and freedoms we enjoy as Americans, are true heroes. 
   Peace Officers Memorial Day honors those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for the safety and security of their communities and our nation. Created by Public Law 87-726, signed by President Kennedy in 1962, this day gives us the opportunity to acknowledge and pay our respects to those who, through their courageous deeds, have fallen in the line of duty. 
   Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, May 13, 2007, 382 names will be added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial during the 19th Annual Candlelight Vigil. These 382 names include 145 officers who died in 2006, plus 237 from earlier years who had previously been lost to history. Of these 382 names, 55 represent Texas law officers who lost their lives in the line of duty, nine of them in 2006.  
   Mr. Speaker, one of the names of the fallen heroes to be added to the list is Officer Rodney J. Johnson of the Houston Police Department. Officer Johnson, a 12 year veteran of the Houston Police Department, was killed September 21, 2006, while taking a suspect in custody during a traffic stop. He leaves to honor his memory his beloved wife, Houston Police Department Officer Joslyn 
   Johnson, and five teen-age children; three daughters and two sons, ages 14 to 19. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson was born in Houston and served in the U.S. Army as a military police officer until being honorably discharged in 1990. He then went to work as a corrections officer for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice and then as a jail attendant. He graduated from the Houston police academy in 1994. 
   As a member of the department's Southeast Gang Task Force, Officer Rodney Johnson earned two Lifesaving Awards and one Medal of Valor from the state of Texas. In January 1998, Officer Rodney Johnson rescued a physically challenged driver trapped in rising floodwaters in January 1998 and later that year he rescued mentally challenged people trapped inside of a burning house. 
   Officer Rodney Johnson, who stood 6 feet 5 inches tall and weighed nearly 300 pounds, served on his union's board of directors. As Hans Marticiuc, the president of Officer Johnson's union stated, ``he was big and he was intimidating-looking, but he was as gentle as a baby bear.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, the number of officers killed in the line of duty last year declined nearly 8 percent from 2005, when there were 157 officer deaths. The 2006 figure was the lowest annual total since 1999, when 143 officers were lost. 
   Although the number of officers killed in the line of duty has declined in recent years, the fact that one officer is killed every two-and-a-half days in our country is a sober reminder that protecting our communities and safeguarding our democracy come at a heavy price. Including this year's officers, there are now 17,917 names engraved on the Memorial, representing officers from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, U.S. territories, and federal law enforcement and military police agencies. 
   This resolution permits the Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary to sponsor a free public event, the 26th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service, on the Capitol grounds on May 15, 2007. This service will honor the law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty during 2006 who have died in the line of duty, as well as the 800,000 officers who continue to serve in federal, state and local law enforcement agencies nationwide. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution. I yield back the balance of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL CORRECTIONAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES WEEK -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 264, which puts this House on record in support of the goals and ideals of ``National Correctional Officers and Employees Week'' and which honors the service of correctional officers and employees. 
   Correctional facilities form a crucial component of our criminal justce system, and the proper functioning of these facilities is depndent upon the exemplary service performed by correctional peronnel. These men and women work daily in a complex, ever-changing, and often dangerous environment, protecting the rights of the public and safeguarding us, as a Nation, from criminal activity. 
   Not only are these correctional officers and employees responsible for the custody of inmates, but they are also charged with the care of these individuals, and with maintaining their dignity as human beings. This is a profession that exerts immense physical and emotional demands on a daily basis, and requires constant courage and vigilance. 
   Mr. Speaker, correctional work has become an increasingly sophisticated profession, and we as a nation should take pride in the caliber of those who work in this field. These men and women face overwhelming obstacles, and operate daily in a high-risk environment, yet they receive little recognition. This week, which we observe as National Correctional Officers and Employees Week, is our opportunity to honor all correctional officers and employees for their service to their communities and our Nation. 
   I strongly support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (21ST CENTURY COMPETITIVENESS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2272, the 21st Century Competitiveness Act of 2007. Innovation has been a priority of the new Democratic majority in the 110th Congress; we have worked to ensure that the United States continues to be the global leader in technological innovation and progress. I strongly support this legislation, which encourages our Nation to invest in research and development, and I urge my colleagues to do so as well. 
   According to a 2005 report by The National Academies, the United States is in danger of losing the competitive edge it currently enjoys in the global economy. Despite our proud tradition of innovation, this report warns that immediate action is necessary to ensure that the United States continues to be a leader in technological progress into the 21st century. This Congress is fully committed to answering that challenge. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2272 contains many important provisions to strengthen America's prospects for global competitiveness. It improves and strengthens a number of scholarship programs at all levels of study, encouraging students and young people to pursue further education in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and computing. Additionally, the bill establishes programs to provide support for researchers in science and engineering fields. 
   H.R. 2272 also reaffirms our commitment to scientific excellence by reauthorizing the National Science Foundation, NSF, for 3 years. The NSF ensures a continued national supply of scientific and engineering personnel, while promoting basic research and education across a wide array of scientific and technological disciplines. By authorizing continued funding for this institution, H.R. 2272 is an important step towards ensuring continued American scientific progress. 
   In the interest of both economic prosperity and military capability, the United States must continue producing a workforce knowledgeable to maintain technological competitiveness. If we are to do this, this Congress must continue funding and strengthening needed investments in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education and research. Supporting this bill is an important step, and I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LIFE, LEGACY AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF LAMAR HUNT -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 53, to recognize the life of Lamar Hunt and his outstanding contributions to the Kansas City Chiefs, the National Football League, and the United States. 
   The National Football League and the American sports community lost a true treasure on December 13, 2006 when Chiefs Founder Lamar Hunt passed away in Dallas, Texas at the age of 74. Lamar Hunt was an independent thinker, a trailblazer who refused to be denied his dream. Recognized as one of the greatest sportsmen in American history, Hunt served as the guiding force behind the formation of both the American Football League and the Kansas City Chiefs franchise. 
   Hunt served as a positive influence on the game for 47 years dating back to his conception of the American Football League in 1959. He was the first AFL figure to be enshrined into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1972, a remarkable feat considering he became involved in the game just 13 years earlier. 
   Hunt served as the catalyst who brought together the ``Foolish Club'' comprised of the 8 original AFL owners. His ``impossible dream'' became a reality when his fledgling league took foot on the field for the 1960 season. On June 8, 1966, the AFL-NFL merger was announced by NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle and on January 15, 1967, Hunt's Kansas City Chiefs were participating in the inaugural Super Bowl. Lamar Hunt's Kansas City Chiefs returned to the Super Bowl in 1970 and defeated the Minnesota Vikings by a score of 23-7 in Super Bowl IV. 
   Despite his many accomplishments, Hunt's humility was one of his most unwavering and most endearing traits. While he modestly declined to take credit for his efforts, Hunt truly played an important role in the design, ongoing development and direction of the modern-day National Football League. Lamar Hunt was also a risk taker. He signed a great number of African-American players onto the Kansas City Chiefs football team at a time when few other football teams took that chance. So, Lamar Hunt rose above the crowd and nestled on top of the football and sports apex where few others sat. 
   Whether it was employing more African-Americans, serving as the driving force behind the formation of the AFL, serving as a key player in the AFL-NFL merger talks in the '60s, or overseeing many crucial issues concerning pro football and the Chiefs franchise during the past 4 decades, few individuals helped change the face of America's favorite game for the better than this quiet Texan. 
   In addition to being a principal negotiator in the merger of the AFL and NFL in the late '60s, he was a contributor to the design of the NFL playoff format. He is also credited with accidentally putting the name ``Super Bowl'' on the NFL's championship game--the name coming from his children's toy ``Super Ball.'' 
   As the founder of the AFL, he helped pave the way for much of the modern growth of pro football. Possibly the greatest tribute to his contributions to the sport was the naming by the league of the Lamar Hunt Trophy, which is presented annually to the champion of the American Football Conference. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in recognizing the enormous contributions Lamar Hunt has made the sports world and beyond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL HURRICANE PREPAREDNESS WEEK -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 402, which puts this House on record in strong support of the goals and ideals of National Hurricane Preparedness Week. As we near the 2-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, one of the most devastating natural disasters that our country has ever known, we still have a great deal of work to do to secure our Nation from further weather catastrophes. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which encourages increased public awareness about how to prepare for a hurricane. 
   Mr. Speaker, Hurricane Katrina was one of the worst storms in American history, its magnitude rivaled only by the catastrophic failure of the Federal government to adequately respond to the resulting suffering in a manner befitting our great Nation. 
   This year's hurricane season officially begins on June 1, and scientific predictions do not bode well. Forecasters anticipate a ``very active'' year for storms along the Atlantic coastline, with researchers at Colorado State University anticipating 17 named storms, including 9 hurricanes. According to these predictions, there is a 74 percent chance that at least one major hurricane will strike the U.S. coastline. 
   This time we have fair warning. We know how devastating a hurricane can be, and we know we are likely to see another storm of the magnitude of Hurricane Katrina. We know that our disaster prevention, preparedness, and relief mechanisms and agencies are woefully inadequate. We can no longer use ignorance as an excuse, and we cannot allow ourselves to be caught unprepared once again. 
   This legislation recognizes the extreme destructive power of hurricanes; their potential to destroy homes and livelihoods as well as essential infrastructure. We may not be able to predict exactly how, when, or where a hurricane will make landfall, but we do know what areas of the country are particularly vulnerable to hurricanes. We know what basic steps, such as developing a written family disaster plan or establishing evacuation routes, residents of these areas can and should take to prepare themselves. And most of all, we know that hurricanes will continue to pose a threat in the years to come, a threat which we cannot ignore. 
   In recognition of this knowledge, this bill acknowledges this week, May 20-26, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week. It encourages the staff of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, especially at the National Weather Service and the National Hurricane Center, and other appropriate Federal agencies, to continue to educate people in the United States about hurricane preparedness. 
   Additionally, this legislation urges the people of the United States to recognize such a week as an opportunity to learn more about the work of the National Hurricane Center in forecasting hurricanes and in educating citizens about the potential risks associated with hurricanes. 
   Mr. Speaker, Hurricane Katrina was responsible for $81.2 billion in damage, as well as for the deaths of 1,836 persons. We have a responsibility to provide the American people with a disaster preparedness system that works. We must ensure that, should another storm of Katrina's magnitude make landfall on America's coastline, we will not have to witness the atrocious suffering that we saw in the  summer of 2005. I strongly support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do so as well.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING PRIVATE FIRST CLASS JONES -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as many of us have been doing over the past couple of years and months, I paid tribute to a fallen soldier in my district this past weekend. Private First Class Jones was young and vibrant and loved by his family. Those who loved him had to bury him, for he is another of those now fallen from the violence in Iraq. We pay tribute to him for his great service and his love of country. 
   It is time now for America to love her own even more. It is time for our soldiers to come home. As we prepare for the honoring of those fallen in many wars, it becomes more than a disservice to those brave men and women for the President not to join this Congress in the resolution of this misdirected mission, in order to ensure that our troops come home with accolades and recognition because their mission has been successful. 
   The political mission is a failure, and it's time now for us to vote on a supplemental that has benchmarks and, as well, timelines to redeploy our troops, whether to Kuwait or otherwise. Our troops must come home. I pay tribute to the fallen. I pay tribute to Private First Class Jones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 660, the ``Court Security Improvement Act of 2007.'' This legislation will go a long way toward enhancing the security and integrity of our judicial system and the able men and women who comprise the Federal judiciary. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me quote the Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme Court: ``Our democracy and the rule of law depend upon safe and secure courthouses.'' That is because an independent judiciary is essential for a regime based on the rule of law. Nothing can do more to undermine the independence of the judiciary than the very real threat of physical harm to members of the judiciary or their families to intimidate or retaliate. In 1979, U.S. District Court Judge John Wood, Jr., was fatally shot outside of his home by assassin Charles Harrelson. The murder contract had been placed by Texas drug lord Jamiel Chagra, who was awaiting trial before the judge. 
   In 1988, U.S. District Court Judge Richard Daronco was murdered at his house by Charles Koster, the father of the unsuccessful plaintiff in a discrimination case. The following year, U.S. Circuit Court Judge Richard Vance was killed by a letter bomb sent to his home. The letter bomb was attributed to racist animus against Judge Vance for writing an opinion reversing a lower-court ruling to lift an 18-year desegregation order from the Duval County, Florida schools. 
   In this age of the global war on terror, the danger faced by Federal judges, judicial officers, and court personnel is real, as illustrated by the three murders noted above. The recent and tragic murder of U.S. District Court Judge Joan Humphrey Letkow's husband and mother reminds us that the danger has not abated. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 660 provides a three-pronged legislative response to the security challenges facing our judicial institutions and personnel. First, it directs the U.S. Marshals Service to consult with the Judicial Conference regarding the security requirements for the judicial branch, in order to improve the implementation of security measures needed to protect judges, court employees, law enforcement officers, jurors and other members of the public who are regularly in Federal courthouses. 
   The bill also extends authority to redact information relating to family members from a Federal judge's disclosure statements required by the Ethics in Government Act and removes the sunset provision from the redaction authority, thus making the redaction authority permanent. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 660 also enhances the security and protection of judicial personnel and their families by making it a criminal offense to maliciously record a fictitious lien against a Federal judge or Federal law enforcement officer. This new crime and punishment is intended to deter individuals from attempting to intimidate and harass Federal judges and employees by filing false liens against their real and personal property. 
   The bill also makes it a crime to publish on the Internet restricted personal information concerning judges, law enforcement, public safety officers, jurors, witnesses, or other officers in any U.S. Court. The penalty for a violation is a maximum term of imprisonment of 5 years. Additionally, the bill increases the maximum penalty for killing or attempting to kill a witness, victim, or informant to obstruct justice or in retaliation for their testifying or providing information to law enforcement by increasing maximum penalties. 
   All in all, Mr. Speaker, this bill makes a substantial contribution to the enhancement of security of judicial institutions and personnel. I urge all members to join me in supporting this beneficial legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FOREIGN INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support, and as a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 556, the bipartisan National Security FIRST Act of 2007. This bill will ensure that never again will the Congress and people of the United States be taken by surprise at the discovery that an administration may have endangered the nation's security by authorizing the acquisition of critical American infrastructure by an entity owned or controlled by foreign government with interests inimical to the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, recall how outraged Americans were in January 2006 when we learned of the Bush administration's secret approval of the Dubai Ports World deal. That is when it was disclosed that the secretive Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) had approved a port deal sought by Dubai Ports World--with only minimal review--despite the deal's national security implications. Dubai Ports World is a company owned by the government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). 
   The Dubai port deal would have resulted in the company managing terminal operations at six major U.S. ports, including the Port of Houston in my own congressional district. But that is not all. As the facts began to dribble out, we learned that the CFIUS had not initiated a 45-day national security investigation--despite the fact that UAE had links to 9/11 and notwithstanding the fact the Department of Homeland Security had raised security concerns. It was only in response to the overwhelming disapproval, criticism, and anger of the American people and the Congress that Dubai Ports World announced in early March 2006 that it was divesting itself of these U.S. port operations, effectively killing the deal. 
   Mr. Speaker, although this was a happy outcome it did not obscure the material fact that the CFIUS process was fundamentally flawed. This is because despite the national security implications, the Bush administration lawfully had approved the Dubai Ports World deal with only minimal review--and with no notification to the Congress. 
   It is also clear from the record that the Bush administration only gave the Dubai port deal a cursory look before approving it. The secretive CFIUS approved the plan with little review, in only 30 days, and without the 45-day national security investigation that should have been conducted. Further, the CFIUS approval was made by mid-level officials. The senior-level decisionmakers in the administration--including the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the President of the United States--were not involved in the decisionmaking process and learned of it only from media reports. In addition, no Member of Congress was informed of the secretive approval by CFIUS of the port deal--with Members also learning about the deal in press reports. 
   Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I participated in hearings that uncovered the 
   weaknesses in the CFIUS regulatory framework and cosponsored bipartisan legislation in the 109th Congress that would have corrected these deficiencies. That bill, H.R. 5337, passed the House 424-0 but the Republican congressional leadership in the last Congress could not get together with the Senate to produce and present to the President a bill he would sign. 
   We rectify that failure today. H.R. 556 strengthens national security by reforming the interagency Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) process by which the Federal Government reviews foreign investments in the United States for their national security implications. 
   The bill requires CFIUS to conduct a 30-day review of any national security-related business transaction. After a 30-day review is conducted, CFIUS would be required to conduct a full-scale, 45-day investigation of the effects the business transaction would have on national security if the committee review determines that the transaction threatens to impair national security and these threats have not been mitigated during the 30-day review. The statutory 45-day review is also triggered if the committee review determines that the transaction involves a foreign government-controlled entity and the CFIUS chairman and  vice chairman are unable to certify it poses no threat to the national security. Finally, the 45-day review is required if the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) identifies intelligence concerns with the transaction that he concludes could threaten national security, and these threats have not been mitigated during the 30-day review. The bill also contains numerous other provisions to strengthen the CFIUS review process. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 556 for four important reasons. First, it subjects transactions involving foreign governments to a stricter level of scrutiny. Second, the bill provides for senior-level accountability for CFIUS decisions. Third, the bill improves CFIUS accountability to Congress. Finally, H.R. 556 strengthens the CFIUS review process by establishing a formal role for intelligence assessments for every transaction. I will briefly discuss each of these important procedural improvements. 
   Mr. Speaker, as I indicated earlier, the Dubai Ports World deal was approved by mid-level officials and without a 45-day national security investigation of the transaction, even though Dubai Ports World was owned by a foreign government. H.R. 556 strengthens current law by requiring in cases involving a company that is controlled by a foreign government, a non-delegable certification by either (1) the chairman of CFIUS (the Secretary of the Treasury) or the vice-chairman of CFIUS (the Secretary of Homeland Security) that the transaction poses no national security threat. In the absence of this non-delegable certification, a second-stage 45-day national security investigation of the transaction must take place. 
   Next, H.R. 556 ensures senior level accountability for CFIUS decisions by requiring the chairman and vice chairman of CFIUS to approve all transactions where CFIUS consideration is completed within the 30-day review period (limiting delegation of approval authority to the Under Secretary level); and requires that the President approve all transactions that have also been subjected to the second-stage 45-day national security investigation. 
   H.R. 556 improves CFIUS accountability to Congress. As was noted above, Members of Congress were not notified of the CFIUS approval of the Dubai Ports World deal. This bill rectifies this failure by requiring CFIUS to report to the congressional committees of jurisdiction within 5 days after the final action on a CFIUS investigation, and permits the committees to request one detailed classified briefing on the transaction. The bill also requires CFIUS to file semi-annual reports to Congress that contain information on transactions handled by the committee during the previous 6 months. 
   Last, H.R. 556 strengthens the CFIUS review process by establishing a formal role for intelligence assessments for every transaction. The bill requires that every transaction be subjected to an assessment by the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) and contains provisions to ensure that the DNI has adequate time to conduct the required assessment. 
   All in all, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 556 represents an important contribution to our effort to secure the homeland. Last November, the American people voted for change, they voted for competence, they voted for a new direction for our country. I am proud to say that with H.R. 556, the new majority has once again delivered on its promise to chart a new direction to make America safer and more secure. 
   I urge all Members to join me in supporting H.R. 556.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 7321, AUTO INDUSTRY FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I see no drug addicts in here. I only see hardworking Americans--people who make things with their hands and who support their families and who make cars that have been noted as outstanding cars, not only in America but also around the world. So I support the bail in of all of these taxpayers, and I am gratified that this particular legislation does answer the question. 
   I would like to yield to the gentleman, the chairman of the committee, to ask him about this auto czar and whether or not they have the authority to prevent the relocation of these plants overseas to take jobs away from Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 7321, AUTO INDUSTRY FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Well, let me just say that this bill focuses on restoring the ability of Americans to make things. It protects the taxpayers with the ``car czar.'' It protects retirees. It protects the pensioners. It protects the families. It stops, if you will, this massive bonus program. It's interesting that my friends now say do the bankruptcy process, but when the poor mortgage holder was asking for a bankruptcy, the process of my friends on the other side of the aisle would not allow them to do so. 
   Bankrupt companies selling cars do not work. Let us stand for the hardworking Americans who make things with their hands, who design things with their intuitiveness and who bring to America the pride that built the middle class. 
   I am proud of this bill, and I believe we should stand strong to support them. It is good to give tools to the next administration who can make this right. For my friends who want to help the small businesses, join me in supporting the economic stimulus package for which we're going to vote to help Americans to restore their lives.  
   Mr. Speaker I rise today in support of H.R. 7297. I would like to thank the Chairman of Financial Service Barney Frank for bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor. I rise today with the confidence that our system of government is strong and the constitutional protections of our government will protect America while we reform America's automobile industry. 
   Leadership has worked without tiring to ensure that this bill contains language that will ensure the betterment of the American people. Our leadership should be thanked for working on this bill during long hours into the night, weekends, and busy days. We toiled long into the night to incorporate Democratic principles in this bill. 
   I have worked with leadership to offer language from the bill that I introduced on November 20, 2008. The bill is H.R. 7297, ``Emergency Automobile Industry American Jobs Protection Act of 2008.'' 
   The ideas included in H.R. 7297 are important because they will continue to keep America's economy strong, ensure that jobs remain in America and that the automobile companies develop a definite plan for growth. My legislation is aimed at stabilizing the American automobile industry through jobs, dealerships, including women and minority-owned dealerships, and American automobile industry suppliers. H.R. 7297 requires that any loan funds distributed to the ``Big Three'' automobile companies should be conditioned upon these companies filing a certification with the Congress. 
   The bill provides that before receiving loan funds, the ``Big Three'' must certify the following: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN MUMBAI, INDIA -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. In the recent week, we watched in horror as terrorists, criminals, and people who are uncaring attacked the innocent people of Mumbai, India--a band of 10, attacking innocent persons in hotels, traveling to hospitals and to train stations, going to the Chabad religious community and killing recklessly. 
   Mr. Speaker, this should be a signal that we have to join together to again confront those who would terrorize the world. I know that this is going to be a place of conflict--Pakistan, Bangladesh, and India--but it is important for us to recognize that the people of India want peace, the people of Pakistan want peace, and the Bangladesh want peace, and the people in the Mid-East want peace. But we must weed out those who would terrorize us. We need to join together in the effort of stamping out terrorism and meanwhile continue to secure the homeland. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague from New York, Representative Charles Rangel. I would like to thank Chairman Rangel for his extraordinary leadership on the Ways and Means Committee and for introducing this important legislation that promotes tax fairness and fiscal responsibility, a new fiscal direction that the American people have demanded and deserve. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Bush administration has not done an adequate job in allocating this country's resources. However, this Congress remains committed to providing a fiscal new direction for the American people. This important legislation will protect some 23 million Americans from the Alternative Minimum Tax and will extend tax credits to those who need it most, our Nation's students, teachers, children and homeowners. The Alternative Minimum Tax is currently riddled with loopholes, and this legislation is a fiscally responsible alternative to the practice of borrowing tens of billions of dollars each year, in which the GOP has engaged. It closes the legislative loophole that has allowed a privileged few exceptions at the expense of other Americans. 
   As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I particularly welcome this legislation for the assistance it will provide to our Nation's children. Today's bill will increase eligibility for the child tax credit, consequently helping an 
   additional 12 million children in low-income families. This bill will lower the eligibility threshold in 2008 to $8,500. The National Women's Law Center recently released a statement detailing the organization's sincere support for this legislation, commenting that ``For a single mother working fulltime in a minimum wage job, the bill would mean a difference between a child tax credit of just $35 and a credit of $568.'' We must work to ensure that all of our Nation's children are provided for, and I feel this legislation is an important step toward reaching this crucial goal. 
   In addition, Mr. Speaker, this legislation will benefit our Nation's teachers and students. It will help 3.4 million teachers by allowing them to save money through deductions for classroom expenses. It will further ensure that the future leaders of America will receive the education they deserve, by helping 4.5 million families afford college through tuition deductions. It will help our Nation's families by providing 30 million homeowners with property tax relief and benefit approximately 11 million families through State and local sales tax reduction. Mr. Speaker, these benefits cannot be ignored and this legislation would help those who truly deserve it. 
   Furthermore, this fiscally-responsible bill will not cost American taxpayers any additional money. The Alternate Minimum Tax was established in 1969, and it has since then been used to exempt an exceptionally wealthy few from paying their share of this Nation's taxes. Instead of costing America additional funds to mend this antiquated tax, or borrowing heavily and exponentially increasing the national debt as my Republican colleagues have done, this legislation seeks to restore tax fairness. Instead of merely circumscribing the problem and providing a ``quick fix,'' this legislation will close tax loopholes that have persisted in allowing an extremely wealthy privileged few to pay a lower tax rate on their income than the billions of hard-working Americans who are just trying to get by. This legislation protects our future generations by not asking them to pay for the proposed tax cuts. 
   This legislation goes beyond simply ensuring that future generations will not be forced to finance tax reductions today. This legislation will actually help the American economy grow. It will extend the R&D tax credit to promote innovation and high-paying jobs that make America one the world's leaders in innovation and technological progress. It will also ensure long-term economic growth by adhering to the ``pay-as-you-go'' budget rules that helped produce the record budget surpluses and robust economy of the 1990s by mandating no new deficit spending. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people elected this Congress because they wanted to see a new direction and a meaningful change. This legislation does precisely that and helps the most deserving American people while causing our economy to grow and breaking our reliance on deficit spending. It will ease the burden felt by millions of middle-class families, through tax cuts, while helping our economy grow without increasing the national debt. The benefits of the Temporary Tax Relief Act will be felt immediately by the 23 million middle-class families, who will be saved from paying higher taxes in April. It also closes unfair tax loopholes, requiring Wall Street millionaires to pay their share of taxes. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this extremely important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am very proud to have been one of those today to support the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007. 
   Let me call the roll so we will understand what this bill does. 
   First of all, I am gratified that 1.270 million projected AMT returns by the State of Texas, those who will file their returns will get a benefit in my State because this bill has been passed today. 
   I am equally delighted that this bill looks out for a lot of America's taxpayers. Twelve million children will be helped by expanding the child tax credit. Eleven million families will be helped through the State and local sales tax deduction, and that is a bunch of families in the State of Texas. 3.4 million teachers will be able to deduct their classroom expenses, and that will help a lot of Texas teachers. And we will provide thousands of American troops in combat with tax relief under the earned income tax credit. In addition, some $8 billion will be utilized to help the real estate industry as well. 
   The Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007 is the right thing to do to help pay for the AMT reduction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING OUR VETERANS -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. How often do many Americans read the historic documents like the Declaration of Independence or our Constitution? The Declaration of Independence indicates that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that we all are created equal, with certain inalienable rights of life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
   In the opening words of the Constitution, it says that we have gathered to form a more perfect union. What better exhibit of a perfect union, of the opportunity for happiness, than the veterans and members of the United States military who serve us now on the front lines? 
   So I rise today to pay special tribute to them. I look forward to returning to my district in Houston and joining the commemoration on this coming Sunday, and as well, marching with veterans, riding in military vehicles, getting the sense of their life and their dedication. I look forward to paying tribute to them in Houston's Freedom Fest and celebrating with some of the teary-eyed veterans, family members who have come to celebrate and to simply say thank you. 
   My presence here today on this floor is an example of the free country in which we live. The discourse of democracy is protected by those who fight today and those who have fought in wars gone by. And so it is appropriate that I rise today and embrace all of our veterans from sea to shining sea, to be able to say to you, thank you, and thank you to your families for the sacrifice of being away from them, mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, children that you have missed because you have served our country. 
   I rise in support of the homeless veterans. And today in Houston we have what we call a ``stand-down,'' where veterans come and celebrate those who walk the streets and are homeless. 
   I look forward to the passage of the most timely and largest Veterans bill in the history of this Nation. Democrats were the leaders on this, and we will get it passed, and we will provide a thank you for our veterans. 
   I rise also to acknowledge that there are those still fighting on the front lines, and in particular, in Iraq. I claim today, as I have done from the very day that this war was pronounced, I want our soldiers to come home. I want our heroes to come home. And I have a memory of the great excitement, through pictures, of course, of the celebration of the World War II veterans. Who could ever forget that famous kiss in Times Square in New York? But since that time, I have not been satisfied by the way we have honored our veterans, our soldiers who have come home. And so I have filed H.R. 4020, the Military Success Act of 2007, that calls on the Nation to welcome home our Iraqi soldiers with a proclamation and celebration, with funding going to local and State jurisdictions so that we can have a day of celebration. I want to see those kisses in the town square. I want to see those colorful ribbons. I want to make sure that we understand that when a soldier comes home, it should not be in the dark of night on a lonely airplane or a lonely bus going into a lonely town. 
   So I ask my colleagues and Americans, veterans organizations, to support H.R. 4020 to celebrate the soldiers and to provide a celebration for each returning battle group that comes home from any war that they fight on behalf of America and they have lost lives and they have dedicated themselves to this Nation. 
   And because of that, Mr. Speaker, I also stand today to beg President Musharraf in Pakistan to release former Prime Minister Bhutto from house arrest. I acknowledge the Pakistani Army for the work that they have done on the border, some having lost their life, along with our soldiers in Afghanistan, but I ask the President of Pakistan, an ally of the United States, to understand that if you have democracy, it is a painful experience. And even when there are those against you, you must stand for democratic principles in your own way. Pakistan is a Muslim country that promotes democracy. 
   And so I ask President Musharraf to release the former Prime Minister Bhutto from house arrest, to release the lawyers from detention, and the political prisoners, to restore the constitution, to restore the democratic rule, and to release the emergency rule. 
   No, I don't expect for us to invade Pakistan, I don't expect for us to invade Iran, but I do expect for this State Department and this President to take this seriously. 
   In this legislation, H. Res. 810, I have asked for a diplomatic team of those from the Defense Department, those from the State Department to form a team, fly to Pakistan, sit down with our ally, and demand, yes demand, because of the $11 billion we've given them, the right for democracy to return to Pakistan. 
   I believe that this is the way to run our foreign policy. Bring our soldiers home, and celebrate them in honor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise to say that we did have legislation that would protect the Constitution and provide the security for our troops and those in the intelligence community, and that was the RESTORE Act. Today I rise in enormous opposition to H.R. 6304 because, frankly, Madam Speaker, it's very difficult to put lipstick on a pig. 
   What we have here is the opportunity for the government to conduct mass, untargeted surveillance of all communications coming into and out of the United States without any individual review and without any finding of wrongdoing. 
   What Americans don't know is that this government can now surveil you for 7 days without any approval. Then if the court denies the application, while the application is being appealed from the denial, you can be surveilled for 60 days. 
   This is not constitutional protection. As it relates to the idea of those who are now in court on warrantless searches, now the courts have no authority over that, and your cases will be dismissed. 
   I ask my colleagues to oppose this because ``significant purpose'' has been taken out of this legislation.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 6304, the ``FISA Amendments Act of 2008''. This body has worked diligently with our colleagues in the Senate to ensure that the civil liberties of American citizens are appropriately addressed. Sadly, this compromise bill falls short of that aim. I will support no bill that fails to protect American civil liberties, both at home and abroad. 
   I am unable to support this bill that will overhaul how the Government monitors foreign terrorist suspects. I will not support any legislation that grants legal immunity to telecommunications companies that provide information to Federal investigators without a warrant. 
   Madam Speaker, this administration has the law to protect the American people. When Americans are involved, the Bill of Rights, the fourth amendment, and our civil liberties must be adhered to. This legislation does not go far enough to ensure that American rights are protected. 
   The original legislation offered by the House Majority gave the Administration everything that it needed, but today, after months of negotiation, if we endorse H.R. 6304, which grants sweeping wiretapping authority to the Government with little court oversight and ensures the dismissal of all pending cases against the telecommunications companies, we are eviscerating the Constitution. 
   Let me explain my objections to H.R. 6304. It permits the Government to conduct mass, untargeted surveillance of all communications coming into and out of the United States, without any individualized review, and without any finding of wrongdoing. 
   H.R. 6304 permits minimal court oversight. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISA Court) only reviews general procedures for targeting and minimizing the use of information that is collected. Under these circumstances, the court may not know what will be tapped and where it will occur. 
   Furthermore, the bill contains a general ban on reverse targeting, but not the strong language I worked so diligently to include in the FISA legislation that had passed previously in the House. In my view, the RESTORE Act is far superior to this piece of legislation. I wish to take a few moments to discuss the improvement that I offered to the RESTORE Act in the full Judiciary Committee markup, and which was sent over to the Senate for consideration last year. 
   My amendment made an essential contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   Reverse targeting is the practice where the Government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. My language included clear statutory directives regarding whom the government should return to the FISA court and obtain an individualized order if it would like to continue listening to an Americans' communications. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with this legislation, as they did with its successor, the Protect America Act, is that the temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting may be difficult to resist in the absence of certain safeguards in the law to prevent it. 
   My amendment attempted to produce such safeguards. My amendment reduced even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieved this objective by requiring the administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' 
   It is far from clear how the operative language ``reasonably designed to ensure that any acquisition authorized ..... is limited to targeting persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United States; and prevent the intentional acquisition of any communication as to which the sender and all intended recipients are known at the time of acquisition to be located in the United States.'' 
   Yes. It is true that H.R. 6304, the compromise legislation, attempts to ensure that American civil liberties are protected, but the operative language in the legislation does not provide a paradigm for consistency. This is so because it does not provide an objective criterion. H.R. 6304 does not go as far as the legislation that the House sent over to the Senate a few months ago. H.R. 6304 does not retain the objective standards contained in my amendment. 
   The language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that long has been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson-Lee amendment provided a clearer, more objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6304, FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the rule on H.R. 6304, the ``FISA Amendments Act of 2008.'' I am disappointed that I did not have the opportunity to restore my language regarding reverse targeting, which was included in the FISA legislation passed by the House. This body has worked diligently with our colleagues in the Senate to ensure that the civil liberties of American citizens are appropriately addressed. Sadly, this compromise bill, falls short of that aim. I will support no bill that fails to protect American civil liberties, both at home and abroad. 
   The bill contains a general ban on reverse targeting. However, it lacks the strong language that I worked so diligently to include in the original House legislation sent to the Senate. In my view, the RESTORE Act is far superior to this piece of legislation. I wish to take a few moments to discuss the improvement that I offered to the RESTORE Act in the full Judiciary Committee markup, and which was sent over to the Senate for consideration just a few months ago. 
   My amendment, which was added during the markup, made a constructive contribution to the RESTORE Act by laying down a clear, objective criterion for the administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce in preventing reverse targeting. 
   Reverse targeting is the practice where the Government targets foreigners without a warrant while its actual purpose is to collect information on certain U.S. persons. 
   One of the major concerns that libertarians and classical conservatives, as well as progressives and civil liberties organizations, have with this legislation, as they did with its successor, the Protect America Act, is that the temptation of national security agencies to engage in reverse targeting may be difficult to resist in the absence of certain safeguards in the law to prevent it. 
   My amendment attempted to produce such safeguards. My amendment reduced even further any such temptation to resort to reverse targeting by requiring the administration to obtain a regular, individualized FISA warrant whenever the ``real'' target of the surveillance is a person in the United States. 
   The amendment achieved this objective by requiring the administration to obtain a regular FISA warrant whenever a ``significant purpose of an acquisition is to acquire the communications of a specific person reasonably believed to be located in the United States.'' 
   It is far from clear how the operative language ``reasonably designed to ensure that any acquisition authorized ..... is limited to targeting persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United States; and prevent the intentional acquisition of any communication as to which the sender and all intended recipients are known at the time of acquisition to be located in the United States.'' 
   Yes. It is true that H.R. 6304, the compromise legislation, attempts to ensure that American civil liberties are protected, but the operative language in the legislation does not provide a paradigm for consistency. This is so because it does not provide an objective criterion. H.R. 6304 does not go as far as the legislation that the House sent over to the Senate a few months ago. H.R. 6304 does not retain the objective standards contained in my amendment. 
   The language used in my amendment, ``significant purpose,'' is a term of art that long has been a staple of FISA jurisprudence and thus is well known and readily applied by agencies, legal practitioners, and the FISA Court. Thus, the Jackson Lee amendment provided a clearer, more 
   objective criterion for the Administration to follow and the FISA court to enforce to prevent the practice of reverse targeting without a warrant, which all of us can agree should not be permitted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1538, the ``Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007.'' The news of the horrible living conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center raised our national consciousness regarding the need to do more--much more--for wounded and injured service members and to upgrade the administrative systems that support them. While the committee made improvements in the past, there is more that can and should be done. When our heroic young men and women willingly sacrifice life or limb on the battlefield, the nation has a moral obligation to ensure that they are treated with respect and dignity. 
   According to Webster's, dignity is ``the quality or condition of being esteemed, honored or worthy.'' Madam Speaker, we can never do enough to honor our wounded veterans. Studies have shown that 30 percent of troops deployed to Iraq suffer from depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). More than 1500 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans have sustained devastating brain injuries from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). However when wounded troops return home the treatment they receive is more befitting a second class citizen than a hero. This is a shame and a great stain on our nation. 
   How these problems could be overlooked or neglected by this Administration is unfathomable. The very leaders that these brave young men and women rely upon let them down. The message that incidents like Walter Reed Medical Center sends to our troops is that we do not care enough. But that is not the message we wish to send. The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, H.R. 1538, will go a long away toward correcting this misapprehension. 
   On February 26, 2007, I had the opportunity to visit some of our wounded heroes at the Michael E. DeBakery VA Hospital in Houston, Texas. I promised those brave young men and women that ``those of us in Washington would do everything we could to ensure that the health and well being of our veterans was a top priority.'' 
   Likewise, I was overwhelmed with sadness and anger after my visit to Walter Reed Hospital in May of last year. Walter Reed points to more general problems in the DOD and VA health care systems. The exposure of Walter Reed has led to the reviews of other DOD and VA health care facilities--reviews that have found that Walter Reed is not an isolated case. The Washington Post reported recently that a recent review by the Department of Veterans Affairs of 1,400 hospitals and other veterans' care facilities ``turned up more than 1,000 reports of substandard conditions--from leaky roofs and peeling paint to bug and bat infestations--as well as a smaller number of potential threats to patient safety, such as suicide risks in psychiatric wards.'' 
   H.R. 1538 addresses the failures of an administration that was eager to go to war, yet took for granted its most valuable resource our troops. This bipartisan bill responds to the problems brought to light at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other military health care facilities by including provisions to: (1) improve the access to quality medical care for 
   wounded service members who are outpatients at military health care facilities; (2) begin the process of restoring the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system and taking other steps to cut bureaucratic red tape; and (3) improve the transition of wounded service members from the Armed Forces to the VA system. 
   Specifically, H.R. 1538 provides improvements to medical and dental care for members of the armed forces assigned to hospitals in an outpatient status. It establishes a toll-free hot line for reporting deficiencies in medical-related support facilities and expedited response to reports of deficiencies. 
   The legislation requires congressional notification of hospitalization of combat wounded service members and creates an independent medical advocate for service members appearing before medical evaluation boards. The bill also provides for training and reduced caseloads for physical evaluation board liaison officers. It also requires the establishment of a standardized training program and curriculum for department of defense disability evaluation system. 
   Our wounded warriors will also benefit from improved training for health care professionals, medical care case managers, and service member advocates on particular conditions of recovering service members provided for in the bill, as they will from establishment of a medical support fund for support of members of the armed forces returning to military service or civilian life. 
   I am especially pleased that the bill requires the establishment of an oversight board for wounded warriors and the submission of an annual report to Congress evaluating military medical facilities and the DOD and VA disability evaluation systems. Finally, the bill imposes a moratorium on the outsourcing of mission critical health care jobs at Walter Reed Medical Center and other medical facilities. 
   Mr. Chairman, every morning when I arrive at my office, I am reminded of how fortunate I am. Outside of my office there is a posterboard with the names and faces of those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing the uniform of our country. I think to myself how lucky I am to live in a nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer to the ultimate sacrifice so that their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. Now is the time to remind our heroes they have not been forgotten. More importantly, America has not forgotten them. As I have said in the past: ``Just as our soldiers do not leave their comrades on the battle fields, America can not leave the injured to languish on their own with no comfort and support from a grateful nation. The problems in Iraq and Afghanistan are taking us away from focusing on the care for our wounded Veterans and their family and that must stop.'' 
   Substandard living conditions, inattentive care, and bureaucratic red tape are completely unacceptable. We must correct everything that is wrong with the current system of health care for wounded veterans and make it right. Most important, a situation like Walter Reed must never be allowed to happen again. One reason we are the greatest nation in the world is because of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve our absolute best. Let them know you care. Let us honor our wounded warriors. Let us pass H.R. 1538. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me first of all thank the distinguished gentleman from Ohio and distinguished gentleman from Florida for allowing me to join you this evening. We do this on occasion, and I thank you for setting the record straight. 
   I just want to say this brief comment on this question of the Iraq War and the veto. Usually there is a phrase that says if you break it, fix it. Well, this government was broken. Nobody in the last several Congresses wanted to fix it, and it is now our task to fix it. That is why you had a board that showed accountability and oversight, and that is why it is imperative that we took the vote last Friday and the Senate took the vote yesterday to go forward and make a difference with a framework in Iraq that the American people asked us to do. 
   I frankly thought that when we won the election that this President would do what many Presidents do in a divided government, sit down with the Speaker and the majority leader and work to save lives in Iraq. Unfortunately, that was not the case, and so I applaud you for bringing to the light the idea of accountability. 
   I just want to quickly move forward with a couple of points about the budget vote and the budget that we have to engage in, and when I look at this particular board that talks about the economy and jobs, I think of places like Texas, Ohio, Florida, the Midwest, New York. I think of the time of the past presidency under President Clinton, a Democratic President, when there were 236,000 jobs created per month. Now, we are at 68,000 jobs per month. 
   Clearly, the Bush economy job growth is among the slowest of any administration in over 70 years, and this literally shows Presidents Hoover, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford. Ford had, of course, inflation. It shows Carter. It shows Reagan. It shows Bush I, Clinton and now this President. 
   The balancing of the budget that we intend to do with a vote taken tomorrow clearly speaks to energizing the economy. 
   Now, let me just talk to those who say that we are raising taxes in this budget. That is false. That is not true. This budget does not contain a single penny of 
   tax increases, period, and the Republicans have been misdescribing this budget because they have had the largest tax cut in the history of the United States. But who benefits the most when the tax cuts are fully enacted? As usual, it is those making over $1 million. 
   That is why Democrats are focusing on middle class taxes. That is why we are cutting middle class income tax. That is why we are focusing on fixing the alternative minimum tax, to shield middle income taxpayers. That is why we have relief for the child tax credit, the marriage penalty relief, and we do something about the estate tax, because any tax cut by this administration, $17,500 would go to those making over $1 million. I would simply say to the gentlemen, who are we representing, the special interests, the rich, or are we trying to represent the working middle class? 
   Now, there are many budgets that will be on the floor tomorrow, and I just want to comment on one. The Congressional Black Caucus budget improves the deficit by $107 billion even over our Democratic budget and $339 billion over the President's budget. There will be a number of budgets, but I am very proud of this budget which really improves the deficit, and when we improve the deficit, being that when we lower the deficit, we work on the high interest rates. Many of us have been hearing unfortunately about large numbers of foreclosures. Part of that is because of reverse mortgages and poor people being plagued upon, if you will, by predatory lending, which are some challenges that fell into this administration, where there was no oversight and accountability of our financial industry. I am delighted that we have a new chairman of the Financial Services Committee to begin to look at the massive foreclosures, and I would encourage those who are tragically in the jaws of foreclosure, get on the phone and call your Members of Congress to speak out against predatory lending and asking for some relief because you are deserving of it.  
   My attentiveness on what Mr. Ryan and Mr. Meek were speaking about drew me to bring to the attention of our listeners and to my colleagues on the floor this whole question of why not only do we need this budget but why it is I think ludicrous for the President to have a veto threat on the emergency supplemental. 
   Who is going to respond to the emergency conditions at Walter Reed? Who is going to respond to the emergency conditions of large numbers of Iraqi veterans who are returning, along with the veterans from Afghanistan, with brain injury, post-traumatic stress, the need of prosthetics, the need of outpatient clinics and the need of family resources and health resources? 
   Well, I hate to tell you that I think over the last 8 years, last 6-years, this administration has, in fact, been poor to poor veterans. January 2003, this lays out how the Bush and the Republican budget funding for veterans has been poor and the veterans have been doing poorly. The Bush administration cuts off veterans' health care for 164,000 veterans. 
   Why do you not walk in your veterans hospitals like many of us have done? I did a couple of Sundays ago, visited with veterans who are paraplegic, paralyzed from the neck down, paralyzed from the legs down, and you ask the question, how can you can cut off veterans' health care for 164,000 vets? Our budget fixes these problems. 
   In March 2003, Republican budget that cut $14 billion from veterans' health care passed by Congress with 199 Democrats voting against it. We voted against the cut of $14 billion from veterans' health care. 
   March 2004, Republican budget that shortchanged veterans' health care by $1.5 billion passed by Congress with 201 Democrats voting against it. Our record is very clear. 
   And in March 2005, President Bush's budget shortchanged veterans' health care by more than $2 billion for 2005 and cut veterans' health care by $14 billion over 5 years but passed with 201 Democrats voting against it. 
   But what I would also say is that it was Democrats who had to come back on this floor and pressure this Congress to put more money back in the budget and back into the resources for our veterans. 
   Let me just say this as I wind down on this budget. Tomorrow there will be a number of substitute budgets. If I could write my own Sheila Jackson-Lee budget, I would have all of it for domestic spending, for housing and health care. Though we have done a great job on the SCHIP program, and I thank Mr. Meek for holding up the embarrassment that we have across America, with States that have as high as 12 percent of our children uninsured, when we could, in fact, have universal health care for all of our children if we were more responsible and we had a more responsible government, I am grateful for the fact, even with a budget that I would have written differently, with more money for health care, as I said more money for housing, and probably more money for the gulf region because we think of Katrina, but the whole gulf region was undermined by this terrible hurricane and it has remained so, so it needs a boost in its economy, but I am grateful that this budget includes a $50 billion reserve fund to expand the State children's health insurance to cover more of the 9 million children without health insurance in this country. 
   So we tried to fix what was broken. We did not break it, but the fact is it is broken, and therefore, I am very proud to stand with Democrats in this budget to be able to come to a Ohio or to be able to tell you that we are going to stop the bleeding on jobs leaving this country, and stop the bleeding of jobs not being provided for Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me first of all thank Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan for yielding to me and allowing me just to join what I think has been an enormously instructive discussion. 
   The point that I want to leave on is, and I love what your display is saying, the budget would not raise taxes, but what I do want to just acknowledge, all that you have said, is because we are choosing people over special interests, because I leave you with this large brown bar that shows you that if the taxes that the President wants to keep in his budget, and the Republican budget, were to go forward, all the work that we are trying to do, whether it is the emergency supplemental and SCHIP and Pell Grants and more jobs being created, go down the tube, with the $17,500 tax relief to those making over $1 million. This is what put us in this enormous deficit. 
   Of course, the Iraq war with no oversight and control, $12 billion lost in Iraq somewhere, contracts not accounted for, but I am glad that we have got one in emergency supplemental that will get us out of Iraq and will help people in this country. We have got a budget that will not focus on special interests, but we will focus on veterans and children and health care. 
   Mr. Meek, you know, you were saying about that, hours-long vote, that was Medicare. As you well know, we are still paying for that Medicare prescription drug benefit now. 
   Let me thank both of you. I am proud to be part of the fix-it Congress after we have been walking through the muck, if you will, of a broken Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. On this potent point, first of all, Mr. Meek, let me say the people that have come to my office say can you provide for funding for child care so I can be at work. I have not heard, Warren Buffett has not been in my office, but Warren Buffett himself has said he would rather see an investment in the domestic economy as opposed to the enormous tax cuts for the rich. 
   The reason why I think this is important, let me have you see something else in 12 months besides the filing of your taxes, an economic engine that may see an increase in jobs just because the Democrats had enough courage to stand up to the President's budget and do our own budget that doesn't have tax increases, but invests in the economy. 
   Maybe we will also see more students going to college. Maybe we will also see more children getting SCHIP money based upon the appropriators and the budget coming together. Maybe we will see, you know what, my country cares for me. They actually care about what I need, because they have brought down the deficit. That is what this President would sign this budget and work with this Congress, maybe we will see what it means to care about Americans as opposed to putting forward special interests. 
   I thank the gentlemen. I would just like to read that as I go, thus, to be clear, the budget resolution does not call for or require a tax increase. That is the Democratic budget resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Chairman, there's a terminology that we use to describe joyous occasions. Sometimes it describes freedom. The Fisk Singers in Tennessee were called the Jubilee Singers, and it was because they organized around slavery and after slavery and the ability to be free with jubilation, and, therefore, they were called the Jubilee Singers. 
   I think today is a day of jubilation, and it certainly is a time to express the jubilation that we feel with the passage, or the intended passage, of this legislation. 
   Let me thank the chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Payne, for persistence and determination and wisdom. Let me also acknowledge his ranking member, Mr. Smith; and, of course, our chairman, Mr. Berman; and the ranking member of the full committee, Ms. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for working with us. 
   But I do want to spend some time acknowledging that we have named this bill after the late former Chairman Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde. That is a jubilation. It is something to express great excitement about because these two distinct figures, in many instances with common views but many instances different views, came together around this lifesaving legislation, Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. And it is particularly important because we have added malaria and tuberculosis as an element that is not a partner but results thereof and/or stands alone, but all of them kill. 
   I am reminded of the first mission to Zimbabwe, to Zambia, and to South Africa, where we went on a Presidential mission, three Members of Congress, to look closely at the devastation of HIV/AIDS. It was in 1996/1997. And it was there that I saw a 4 year old taking care of a dying grandparent, the last person surviving who had tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. So this legislation is crucial, and it is particularly crucial because it recognizes the devastation of all of them. 
   It is likewise crucial because we have not won the war. The jubilation is that the bill is on the floor, but we have not won this war. And I might also say that we have not won the war in education, the ability to prevent all of these diseases. 
   So let me ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5501, The Global HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008. I believe that the legislation we are considering today makes vital improvements to  what is already a groundbreaking program. I would like to thank Chairman Berman for his ongoing leadership on this issue, and for bringing this legislation to the floor today. I would also like to thank the Committee's Ranking Member, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, and my colleagues across the aisle, for working toward a compromise, to develop legislation of which we can all be proud. Today's legislation is a crucial step toward transforming PEPFAR from an emergency response to a sustainable program. 
   I would also like to thank both Chairman Berman and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on African and Global Health, Congressman Payne, for working with me to include important language in this legislation. My language, in Section 301 of this bill, addresses the necessity of making children a priority among individuals with HIV for proper food and nutritional support. Section 301, with my language included, states that it is the sense of Congress that ``for the purposes of determining which individuals infected with HIV should be provided with nutrition and food support-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great privilege to be able to rise on the floor of the House today to challenge all of our colleagues to stand for our children. We are going to do it again, and that is to put on the floor of the House the Children's Health Insurance Program, $35 billion for 10 million children. 
   Forty days in Iraq will equal insuring 10 million children in giving them and providing uninsured low-income children with health care, insuring the lowest income children, pregnant women will be covered. Parents will not be covered. Mental health will be covered. Preventative care, saving the lives of our children, giving them the opportunity for a vigorous and prosperous future. Protecting our soldiers on the front lines when they can't pay for their children's health insurance. This has to be the road we take, the journey to help our children. Let us do it in a bipartisan manner, joining with two Houses, putting it on the desk of the President of the United States. What will this Nation do for her most precious resource? I hope we will pass the SCHIP bill together, united for all of our children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3963, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairwoman for her leadership, along with Chairman Dingell and Chairman Rangel. 
   You know, as I listen on the floor, it is so curious to hear us quarreling over helping children, falling down on incorrect facts, details, while our country is facing tragedy. Our friends in California are suffering because of a natural disaster, and here we are on the floor trying to help our children, many of them who live in a suffering State because they have no health insurance. 
   Today I will vote in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to support this bill, and I will again hope the President will sign it. But I will join my bipartisan colleagues, 72 percent of the American public who support it, two-thirds of the Senate, the majority of the House. We will stand for the children. 
   And in particular, as I come from the State of Texas, this is a bill that we need. This bill will provide and is capped at 300 percent of poverty. This bill is standard law. We will cover legal immigrants, and the law already indicates that those who are undocumented will not be covered. 
   In my own particular community of Harris County, we started in September of 2006 being able to do 56,000. This is a county of 4 million people, and now in the metroplex we are up to 62,000. Do you think that is enough? Absolutely not. In our own State, the Center for Public Policy Priorities Associate Director says Texas will need additional Federal funds in coming years if the State wants to cover the 300,000 children eligible. We are a State that is 20 million plus, but not enrolled in the program today is a mere 300,000. The State is 20 million plus, but we have 300,000 that can't get health insurance, as well as pregnant women. We need this bill. The Texas version of SCHIP covers children and families with incomes at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty level. 
   Our State representative, Representative Coleman, has said this veto handcuffs Texas' ability to continue to reduce the number of uninsured children in our State. 
   You can bet your bottom dollar I'm going to stand with the majority of this Congress in a bipartisan way, not quarrelling over serving our children. 
   Vote for the SCHIP bill. This is the best way to save our children here in America.  
   Mr. Speaker, as the Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote in support of  H.R. 3963, the ``Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' I rise in strong support of this legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the American people. Last November 2006, Americans went to polls by the millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a new direction and a change in the Bush Administration's disastrous neglect of the real needs of the American people, particularly children who lack health insurance through no fault of their own. The new Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 976, ``State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.'' The President vetoed the bill, basing his decision on the absurd and laughable claim that the program was thinly-disguised ``socialized medicine'' and that it was too costly to provide health insurance for America's needy children. 
   The President's senseless veto of the SCHIP bill suggests that this Administration is operating under the misimpression that it is entitled to a continuation of the ancient r&#233;gime under which the Republican-led Congress look askance and gave the President a blank check to mismanage the affairs of our nation. 
   Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to escalate and continue the war in Iraq or to ignore the pressing domestic needs of the American people. It is long past time for change in Iraq and in the direction of the United States. Just as the people and government of Iraq must responsibility for their own country, the people's representatives in Congress must take the lead in addressing the real problems of real Americans living in the real world. 
   H.R. 3963 is a necessary step in the right direction because it provides dependable and stable funding for children's health insurance under titles XXI and XIX of the Social Security Act in order to enroll all six million uninsured children who are eligible for coverage today, but not enrolled. That is why I strongly support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, next to the Iraq War, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the availability of affordable health care for all Americans, especially children. 
   By vetoing the bipartisan SCHIP Authorization Act, the President vetoed the will of the American people. By vetoing that legislation, the President turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the loud message sent by the American people last November. 
   I voted to override the President's veto because I can think of few goals more important than ensuring that our children have access 
   to health coverage. I voted to override the President's veto because I put the needs of America's children first. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentleman. 
   I proudly rise to vote to override the President's veto and to support 10 million children with health care.  
   Madam Speaker, as the chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I rise to announce that I will proudly cast my vote to override the President's veto of H.R. 976, the ``State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Authorization Act of 2007.'' 
   By vetoing the bipartisan SCHIP Authorization Act, the President vetoed the will of the American people. By vetoing this legislation, the President turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the loud message sent by the American people last November. 
   I will vote to override the President's veto because I can think of few goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to health coverage. I will vote to override the President's veto because I put the needs of America's children first. 
   Madam Speaker, this important legislation commits $50 billion to reauthorize and improve the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and it also makes critical investments in Medicare to protect the health care available to our Nation's senior citizens. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in voting to override the President's veto. 
   Madam Speaker, SCHIP was created in 1997, with broad bipartisan support, to address the critical issue of the large numbers of children in our country without access to health care. It serves the children of working families who earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but who either are not able to afford health insurance or whose parents hold jobs without health care benefits. 
   Children without health insurance often forgo crucial preventative treatment. They cannot go to the doctor for annual checkups or to receive treatment for relatively minor illnesses, allowing easily treatable ailments to become serious medical emergencies. They must instead rely on costly emergency care. This has serious health implications for these children, and it creates additional financial burdens on their families, communities, and the entire Nation. 
   This year alone, 6 million children are receiving health care as a result of SCHIP. However, funding for this visionary program expires September 30. Congress must act now to ensure that these millions of children can continue to receive quality, affordable health insurance. 
   As chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I can think of few goals more important than ensuring that our children have access to health coverage. It costs us less than $3.50 a day to cover a child through SCHIP. For this small sum, we can ensure that a child from a working family can receive crucial preventative care, allowing them to be more successful in school and in life. Without this program, millions of children will lose health coverage, further straining our already tenuous health care safety net. 
   Additionally, through this legislation, we have an opportunity to make health care even more available to America's children. The majority of uninsured children are currently eligible for coverage, either through SCHIP or through Medicaid. We must demonstrate our commitment to identifying and enrolling these children, through both increased funding and a campaign of concerted outreach. This legislation provides States with the tools and incentives they need to reach these unenrolled children without expanding the program to make more children eligible. 
   In my home state of Texas, as of June 2006, SCHIP was benefiting 293,000 children. This is a decline of over 33,000 children from the previous year. We must continue to work to ensure that all eligible children can participate in this important program. To this end, Texas Governor Rick Perry signed legislation in June which, among other things, creates a community outreach campaign for SCHIP. 
   In addition to reauthorizing and improving the SCHIP program, this legislation also protects and improves Medicare. Due to a broken payment formula, access to medical services for senior citizens and people with disabilities is currently in jeopardy. Physicians who provide health care to Medicare beneficiaries face a 10 percent cut in their reimbursement rates next year, with the prospect of further reductions in years to come looming on the horizon. The budget proposed by the Bush administration does not help these doctors, or the patients that they serve. 
   This is extremely important legislation providing for the health coverage of 11 million low-income children, as well as protecting the health services available to senior citizens and persons with disabilities. President Bush was wrong to veto this legislation. I stand strong with the children of America in voting to override his cruel veto.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ALMOST 4,000 DEAD IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, sadly, we are moving toward almost 4,000 dead in Iraq. I don't believe there are enough times that we can recount for the American people how many have already died; 25,000 are injured. 
   I am grateful to the Democratic leadership for providing enhanced funding for the veterans hospitals and the Veterans Affairs Department to break the backlog of those veterans' wait for services and to help those in outpatient centers who need care. 
   But the real issue is when is the Iraqi Government going to stand up? 
   Just this past weekend, bombing occurred in Afghanistan where we need to turn our attention, but we understand that there is a possibility that the Iraqi Parliament will end its work and go off on a vacation for July and August while our soldiers are dying. 
   It is time now for this administration to understand the misdirection of this mission, to cause the Iraqi Government to stand up so that we can stand down. How many more lives, how many more families for these brave and wonderful men and women on the front lines of Iraq? They are our heroes, they are the patriots. We salute them. 
   It is time now for the administration to stand up for them and make the Iraqi Government stand up and take care of the Iraqi people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Thompson, and the ranking member. They know that our byline is that we are a bipartisan committee. The reason is because entrusted to the Homeland Security Committee is the security of the Nation, security of a Nation that we love, security of a people that we cherish. 
   Whenever we hear of a tragic truck accident in California, explosive truck accident, the viciousness of the shooting at Virginia Tech, and the bombing, or the threats of such, in the London train system, we begin to think of our security. No, maybe those are accidents, maybe those are not considered terrorist acts, Virginia Tech or the tragedy in California, but it causes America to begin to think about her own security. 
   That is why H.R. 1684 is a strong reflection of the importance of security to this majority leadership. I am very proud that, in the early days of our legislation or our time as the majority, we passed the 9/11 bill, certainly working with a bipartisan leadership. We have moved to ensure that for the first time that we have a strong authorization bill on homeland security. 
   We have not forgotten the employees, and I was glad to be able to offer a particular amendment that addressed the question of the morale and the leadership and the training of our employees. That is important, for if your employees are not fully functioning, the question of security is a question. And so I was delighted to be able to incorporate language regarding the CMOs qualifications, to ensure that the CMO possess a demonstrated ability and knowledge of treatment of illnesses caused by chemical, biological, nuclear and radiological agents. 
   I am also glad to have developed an amendment which strips the Department of the authority to develop a personnel system different from the traditional GS schedule Federal model. In a number of critical ways the personnel system established by the Homeland Security has been a litany of failure. 
   The question is, that if we don't order and put in order our homeland security function, then we cannot secure America. That is what 1684 does. And we will address the questions of security, of civil liberties, of protecting our highways, of being concerned about rail security, we will do it and continue to do it because we believe in America. 
   H.R. 1684 gives us the perfect road map, the perfect hand print to secure this Nation. I ask support for the bill.  
   Mr. Chairman, September 11, 2001, is a day that is indelibly etched in the psyche of every American and most of the world. Much like the unprovoked attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, September 11, is a day that will live in infamy. And as much as Pearl Harbor changed the course of world history by precipitating the global struggle between totalitarian fascism and representative democracy, the transformative impact of September 11 in the course of American and human history is indelible. September 11 was not only the beginning of the Global War on Terror, but moreover, it was the day of innocence lost for a new generation of Americans. 
   Just like my fellow Americans, I remember September 11 as vividly as if it was yesterday. In my mind's eye, I can still remember being mesmerized by the television as the two airliners crashed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center, and I remember the sense of terror we experienced when we realized that this was no accident, that we had been attacked, and that the world as we know it had changed forever. The moment in which the Twin Towers collapsed and the nearly 3,000 innocent Americans died haunts me until this day. 
   At this moment, I decided that the protection of our homeland would be at the forefront of my legislative agenda. I knew that all of our collective efforts as Americans would all be in vain if we did not achieve our most important priority: the security of our nation. Accordingly, I became then and continue to this day to be an active and engaged Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Chairwoman of the Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee, who considers our national security paramount. 
   Our nation's collective response to the tragedy of September 11 exemplified what has been true of the American people since the inception of our Republic--in times of crisis, we come together and always persevere. Despite the depths of our anguish on the preceding day, on September 12, the American people demonstrated their compassion and solidarity for one another as we began the process of response, recovery, and rebuilding. We transcended our differences and came together to  honor the sacrifices and losses sustained by the countless victims of September 11. Let us honor their sacrifices by passing H.R. 1684, which bolsters the efficacy, accountability, and our oversight over the Department of Homeland Security. 
   This bipartisan bill was reported out of the Homeland Security Committee by a unanimous vote and includes many 
   significant provisions I ensured were incorporated either into the base bill or through amendments at the Full Committee Markup aimed at strengthening and streamlining management, organizational, personnel, and procurement issues at the Department to facilitate execution of its homeland security mission. 
   H.R. 1684 authorizes $39.8 billion in appropriations for the activities of the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year (FY) 2008--$2.1 billion over the requested amount of the President's FY 2008 budget. H.R. 1684 is an oversight and management bill that builds capacity, provides resources, and ensures accountability at what GAO still views as a high-risk endeavor--the transformation and integration of 22 entities into the Department of Homeland Security. 
   H.R. 1684 establishes important offices such as the Directorate for Policy, the Office of Health Affairs, and the Office of Cybersecurity and Communications. Within the Office of Health Affairs, this bill creates a Chief Medical Officer, CMO, and I worked with Chairman Thompson to incorporate language regarding the CMO's qualifications to ensure that the CMO possess a demonstrated ability and knowledge of treatment of illnesses caused by chemical, biological, nuclear, and radiological agents. 
   Moreover, I introduced an amendment which passed during the Committee Markup of H.R. 1684 which strips the Department of the authority to develop a personnel system different from the traditional GS schedule Federal model. In a number of critical ways, the personnel system established by the Homeland Security has been a litany of failure. 
   The flexibility we originally granted in the Homeland Security Act of 2002 has not worked. That is why I offered an amendment repealing the DHS human resources personnel system. 
   The Department has abused the flexibility given by Congress. They have created a personnel system that eviscerates employee due process rights and puts in serious jeopardy the agency's ability to recruit and retain a workforce capable of accomplishing its critical missions. 
   We initially believed that the flexibility given the Department would allow it to respond better in times of crisis. We know now that nothing could be further from the truth. The abysmal response to Hurricane Katrina taught us that lesson. 
   Despite Court rulings, however, on March 7, 2007, DHS announced that it will put into effect portions of the personnel system not specifically enjoined by the Court. Just a few weeks earlier, DHS outlined plans to move slower on its controversial personnel overhaul, formerly known as MaxHR, but now called the Human Capital Operations Plan or HCOP. 
   Implementing these plans would further undercut the fairness of the appeals process for DHS employees by eliminating the Merit Systems Protection Board's current authority to modify agency-imposed penalties. These regulations would also provide the Secretary sole discretion to identify offenses and impose 
   employee penalties as well as appoint a panel to decide the employee appeals the Secretary's action. 
   According to U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer, these regulations put the thumbs of the agencies down hard on the scales of justice in [the agencies'] favor. 
   The Federal Appeals Court agreed with the District Court's basic conclusion regarding the lack of fairness of these planned changes in adverse action and appeal rights, but ruled that they were not yet ripe for a decision since no one has been subject to discipline under them. It is clear that another court case will be filed should DHS put these provisions into place and an employee is harmed by the new adverse actions and appeals procedures. 
   Some insisted that employees would be happier and more efficient if they were managed more like the private sector. We know now that nothing could be further from the truth. The Department's morale ratings have consistently been at or near the bottom of all federal agencies. 
   In February of this year, the Department of Homeland Security received the lowest scores of any Federal agency on a Federal survey for job satisfaction, leadership and workplace performance. Of the 36 agencies surveyed: DHS ranked 36th on job satisfaction, 35th on leadership and knowledge management, 36th on results-oriented performance culture, and 33rd on talent management. 
   We know that the Department too often does not listen to their employees. In fact, the National Treasury Employees Union, NTEU, sent me a letter on behalf of the 15,000 employees of DHS' Bureau of Customs and Border Protection thanking me for introducing my amendment repealing DHS' failed human resource management system, MaxHR. Despite its incredibly low morale, the Department is not changing its plans to implement MaxHR. Instead the Department is merely changing the name of an unpopular and troubled system. MaxHR will become HCOP. 
   With the abysmal morale and extensive recruitment and retention challenges at DHS, implementing these personnel changes now will only further undermine the agency's employees and mission. From the beginning of discussions over personnel regulations with DHS more than 4 years ago, it was clear that the only system that would work in this agency is one that is fair, credible and transparent. These regulations promulgated under the statute fail miserably to provide any of those critical elements. It is time to end this flawed personnel experiment. 
   So it is time for Congress to once again step in. It is time to say to the dedicated workers of the Department of Homeland Security that they deserve to be treated with the same dignity and respect granted to other federal employees. Therefore, I thank my Homeland Security colleagues who supported my amendment repealing DHS' failed human resource management system because Homeland Security is too important to get it wrong again. 
   I also worked with Chairman THOMPSON to incorporate into H.R. 1684 language authorizing the Citizen Corps and the 
   Metropolitan Medical Response System programs to strengthen emergency response and recovery efforts. 
   The Citizen Corps Program is a critical program within the Department of Homeland Security that engages the community to be involved in emergency preparedness through public education and outreach, training, and volunteer service. 
   My language ensured that funding will enable local Citizen Corps Councils to more adequately provide education and training for populations located around critical infrastructure. These populations will have an opportunity to be better prepared to respond to natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other man-made disasters. 
   In a bipartisan fashion, I also worked with my colleague from Texas, Representative MCCAUL, to draft an amendment regarding CBP officers and their policies. My amendment called for the GAO to study the Border Patrol's policies on pursuit and the use of lethal and non-lethal force. 
   Our Border Patrol officers operate in some of the most dangerous regions in the country and are often required to use force and pursue suspects on a daily basis. An independent evaluation of these practices and policies is important so that the Border Patrol knows the parameters of its enforcement tactics and has the information necessary to assess whether it needs to adopt new policies. 
   My amendment also requires GAO to examine the number of incidents where force was used and when it has led to penalties against our Border Patrol officers, so we have hard data that can guide any reassessments that may be necessary. 
   Recognizing the problem first is essential to fixing the situation. This non-partisan report by GAO will be a major step in evaluating these vital Border Patrol policies. 
   H.R. 1684 also requires the Department to conduct a Comprehensive Homeland Security Review, similar to the Quadrennial Defense Review conducted by the Department of Defense. In addition, the bill requires pay parity for Customs and 
   Border Protection employees and other border personnel enhancements and addresses critical staffing needs by tapping into the pool of experienced Federal annuitants. 
   In conclusion, I stand here remembering those who still suffer, whose hearts still ache over the loss of so many innocent and interrupted lives. My prayer is that for those who lost a father, a mother, a husband, a wife, a child, or a friend will in the days and years ahead take comfort in the certain knowledge that they have gone on to claim the greatest prize, a place in the Lord's loving arms. And down here on the ground, their memory will never die so long as any of the many of us who loved them lives. 
   Mr. Chairman, the best way to honor the memory of those lost in the inferno of 9/11, is to do all we can to ensure that it never happens again. The best way to do that is to bolster the efficacy, accountability, and our oversight over the Department of Homeland Security, which we created in the aftermath of 9/11 to protect and preserve our Nation which we all hold so dear.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the gentleman's amendment. And might I indicate, because I know Members are in their offices working and committees, and deliberations on the floor are instructive to the Members and their staff, make it very clear of the cooperative and collaborative relationship that the Homeland Security Committee has had with the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, along with many other committees. Let me reemphasize the very strong working relationship of the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and the chairperson of the Transportation Committee. 
   So this amendment is unnecessary. We have worked closely together on this bill and on many issues. I specifically remember the close relationship that we had in working on the rail security bill, where we are jointly responsible for securing the Nation's transportation system or rail transportation system. 
   This amendment, though possibly well-intended, unnecessarily creates a bureaucratic and burdensome process to what should be a simple study. 
   Let us be reminded of the 9/11 Commission. The 9/11 Commission wanted to emphasize the ending of bureaucratic red tape. That is why we have the Homeland Security Department and the Homeland Security Committee. 
   Specifically, this amendment seeks to add the Secretary of Transportation to a study on incentives to secure critical infrastructure information for private stakeholders. Mr. Chairman, we all know what happens when we have too many cooks in the kitchen. We also know that we have a working relationship between our committees and between the Members of this Congress, and also a duty and responsibility to Homeland Security Committee to ensure the securing of this Nation  through the securing and the responsibilities of the Homeland Security Department. Adding more layers to a project like this only assures that the project will not get done in a timely manner. 
   The Secretary of Homeland Security is charged with working to identify and help with other agencies and protect critical infrastructure. That is a component of our committee and the subcommittee that was set up by the chairman of this committee and the subcommittee that I serve to ensure efficiency. The Secretary of Homeland Security by himself is more than capable of working to complete a study of incentives, infrastructure, stakeholders, to share information with the government. 
   For these reasons, I oppose this amendment. And I would simply say to my colleagues, what did the 9/11 Commission dictate or ask us to do? Thoughtfully streamline the process of securing America and make sure that we are attentive, we are efficient, and we get the job done. Lives are at stake. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman. 
   Let me just simply say to my good friend, nothing precludes the engaging by the Homeland Security Department of those who have a stakeholder's role. Remember, this is an assessment of critical infrastructure on the issue of security. 
   The rules of the House designate the Homeland Security Committee as the committee that deals with the question of security. In addition, none of us work in a vacuum; and we would expect this center of excellence to engage those necessary parties. 
   This amendment is opposed by the committee. This amendment will create another layer of bureaucracy. This amendment goes against the 9/11 Commission, which has asked us to be efficient and to be definitive on our questions of security issues. And what we are attempting to do is to allow the Homeland Security Department to do its job, which creates a center of excellence to focus on the security protection measures for critical infrastructure, a defined responsibility of the Homeland Security Department. And we simply expect that there will be a collaborative working on that such that no Department, Mr. Chairman and my colleagues, will be left out, including the very important Department of Transportation. And we would look forward to collaborating with them. 
   And, in that regard, I rise to vigorously oppose the amendment and ask for a ``no'' vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I rise in opposition to the gentleman's amendment. This amendment--while well-intented--unnecessarily creates a bureaucratic and burdensome process to what should be a simple study. 
   Specifically, this amendment seeks to add the Secretary of Transportation to a study on incentives to secure critical infrastructure information from private stakeholders. 
   Mr. Chairman, we all know what happens when we have too many cooks in the kitchen. 
   Adding more layers to a project like this only assures that the project will not get done in a timely manner. 
   The Secretary of Homeland Security is charged with working to identify and help, with other agencies, protect critical infrastructure. 
   The Secretary of Homeland Security by himself is more than capable of working with CREATE to complete a study of incentives for infrastructure stake holders to share information with the government. 
   For these reasons, I oppose this amendment. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. All time on the amendment having expired, the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from New York (Mr. King). 
   The amendment was rejected. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for, again, his outstanding spirit of bipartisanship. 
   I think the importance of Mr. Cardoza's amendment is that he agrees with the Homeland Security Committee and the message and the mission of yourself and Mr. Thompson and all of the Members that, in addition to just handing out equipment, you want to make sure there's a continuing of training, professional development, understanding of the system. And it really impacts firefighters, police, other emergency responders who cannot communicate during times of emergency. We know what happened in 9/11. 
   Let me just finish by saying, one of the other elements of helping us work through this question of interoperability is, as your amendment suggests, focusing on local and regional interoperability communications efforts and, particularly, and I raise this point for a city like Houston, that simply says, let us use the dollars, let us directly use the dollars so that we can follow the pathway of Mr. Cardoza's amendment, which is to improve our interoperable communication efforts. Let us get the monies directly, as opposed to the layering that goes on through the State system. 
   But, in any event, let me thank the gentleman for his amendment.  
   The need for improved emergency communications is not new. Whether we are talking about the Oklahoma City bomb detonated by homegrown terrorist Timothy McVeigh, September 11, or Hurricanes Katrina and Rita--the same story emerged. 
   Firefighters, police, and other emergency responders cannot communicate during times of emergency. 
   Five and one-half years after the 9/11 attacks, and 1 1/2 years after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Department still does not have a dedicated interoperability grant program. 
   Subsequently, states and localities are forced to rob Peter to pay Paul by using large chunks of homeland security grant funding--in some instances 80 percent--to purchase communications equipment instead of securing bridges, ports, buildings. 
   The FY 2006 Budget Reconciliation Act created a $1 billion interoperability grant program to be administered by the Department of Commerce based on the proceeds from the sales of the 700 Mhz spectrum. 
   While that is a good start, the 9/11 Commission has called on Congress to prioritize and improve interoperable emergency communication. 
   Buying equipment is not enough! 
   Congress must support State, local and regional interoperable communication plans that recognize all of the critical factors for a successful interoperability solution. 
   Those factors are part of the SAFECOM Interoperability Continuum. They are: governance, standard operating procedures, training and exercises, and usage, in addition to technology. 
   We cannot just throw money at interoperability--we have to develop a strategic, national plan to improve interoperable communications. 
   The Administration and DHS officials have testified that the cost of achieving interoperability will cost in the tens of billions to $100 billion. 
   More than 90 percent of the public safety communication infrastructure in the United States is owned and operated at the local and state level. Therefore, we must have improved coordination, training, and planning across many jurisdictions to achieve interoperability. 
   According to Project SAFECOM at DHS, interoperability directly impacts the first responder community which consists of over 61,000 public safety agencies including 960,000 Firefighters, 830,000 EMS personnel, and 710,000 Law Enforcement Officers. 
   The Federal government must show leadership on this issue if it is going to tell state and local governments that they need to enhance and improve their emergency communications capability.  
   Funding is only one-half the solution for the interoperability crisis. There must be leadership by all the key stakeholders to sit down and develop the plans necessary to create effective nationwide interoperable communication standards. 
   This amendment provides support to the local governments and regions that are developing plans and systems that will better enable multi-jurisdictions to communicate during times of emergency. 
   The Cardozo amendment will encourage jurisdictions to move toward a truly ``national'' emergency communications capability.  
   This is an excellent amendment, and we rise to support it. 
   I yield back to the distinguished gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, let me thank the gentleman for a very thoughtful amendment. We have addressed this question in the Homeland Security Committee, but also in the subcommittee that I chair, and I think the important point is that when people are trying to clarify their name and they submit personal data, we should be responsible for protecting it. In light of what happened last week, and by the way, we will be having a briefing on that very issue dealing with the TSA's loss of the computer and all that data, this is a very instructive amendment. 
   It would be great to think that we would never lose material, but we do, and also to protect those that have been subjected to a lot of scrutiny, some of them coming from different ethnic groups. This is very thoughtful, and I rise to support the amendment.  
   Madam Chairman, this amendment should be supported as it seeks to require the Department of Homeland Security (the Department) to use funds to protect the security of personal information submitted electronically to the Department's website for the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program, otherwise known as DHS-TRIP, and any other Web site associated with that program. 
   It would be great if we only had to theorize about the possible security, or lack thereof, of the information sent to the Department via redress websites. 
   However, the past has shown that this problem is very real. 
   In February of this year, the Department's Transportation Security Administration (TSA) learned that the website they were using to collect personal information to aid in traveler redress contained a link that was not secure. 
   This insecure link caused hundreds of individuals to transmit information through cyberspace that was not encrypted and subject to being captured by identity thieves, at best, and terrorists, at worst. 
   The Web site was established to provide a remedy for passengers that had been delayed at airports and therefore believed that they had been incorrectly identified as someone on an aviation watch list. 
   What causes even greater concern is that for 4 months and 8 days TSA did not detect the problem through their own internal procedures. In fact, they became aware of the situation through an independent internet blog. 
   The fact that the redress website lacked the necessary security measures to protect users' personal information is proof in the pudding that more needs to be done to protect personally identifiable information sent to TSA. 
   The American public needs to know that the ``S'' in TSA stands for something. 
   Individuals that may have already been wrongfully identified--which can cause airport delays for hours or even days--should not have to experience a second round of mistreatment by having their personal information, including their name, gender, date of birth, social security numbers and addresses vulnerable to being hacked. 
   A few weeks after this discovery TSA launched the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program, otherwise known as DHS-TRIP. 
   We have not yet determined whether the internal controls that should have been in place during the first mishap have been put in place with respect to DHS-TRIP. 
   The recent revelation that a TSA hard drive containing the personal, payroll and bank information of over 100,000 former and current TSA employees was reported stolen, does nothing to alleviate our concerns. 
   For these reasons, this amendment is a good idea, and should be supported.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the gentleman for his ongoing leadership on this issue. Since he started in the United States Congress many years ago, he has led out on this issue. 
   I want to simply refer my colleagues to the idea of imagining the horror of your child being missing, and imagine your child has been missing for so long that his case is declared inactive. Now think about where you would turn if you thought your missing child was in a foreign country. The only parents who do not fear that scenario are those who already live it. 
   So this idea of using the Department of Homeland Security, which should be certainly interested in securing our children, is an important step and certainly an important responsibility for the Inspector General. 
   I would suggest that when we think of security we think of children lost overseas or taken overseas. There is no better agency that could utilize its Inspector General facilities and resources to be able to help those families who are deeply suffering. 
   I want to thank the gentleman for yielding to me. I don't imagine any of us could imagine the need for the resources of DHS checking passengers, checking passports, interacting with the international law enforcement, could not imagine a better use of our time than supporting the gentleman's amendment and allowing the Inspector General to participate in this very important project.   
   I support this amendment. 
   This amendment will allow the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to conduct reviews of ``cold cases'' stored at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children when the children or the offenders are located outside of the U.S. 
   This amendment would permit the Inspector General to provide assistance and develop recommendations for further investigation of these hard to solve cases. 
   A missing child is the anguish of every parent and a concern to every caring adult. 
   Imagine the horror of your child being missing. Imagine that the child has been missing for so long, that its case is declared ``inactive.'' Now think about where you would turn if you thought your missing child was in a foreign country. 
   The only parents who would not fear this scenario are those who already live it. 
   In the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, DHS assumed responsibility for border protection. 
   Many people may not understand how border protection intersects with missing children. 
   I can tell you that as our inspectors check passengers entering and leaving the United States, they have the opportunity to identify missing children and their abductors. 
   Those employees of homeland security who are responsible for protecting our borders and assuring that terrorists do not enter this country also play a role in assuring that children who are leaving this country are in the company of a parent or legal guardian. 
   But when efforts to intercept and detain a child abductor fail, more is lost than just one child. 
   According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) thousands of American children are illegally transported from the United States every year. 
   Through this amendment, we will add one more weapon in our arsenal to safeguard America's children. 
   By bringing to bear the investigative abilities and fresh insights of the Inspector General to these cases we can help resolve these cases that others have given up on. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (WE ARE AT A CROSSROADS AGAIN -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, we are at a crossroads again. The legislation that we worked so meticulously on to ensure the funding of our troops just about a week ago saw the veto pen of the White House without consideration of the failed mission that Iraq has become. 
   I did not say military operations because I believe that our soldiers are valiant, and they have achieved the success that we've asked them to achieve. That is why I went to the Rules Committee today to ask for the consideration that the resolution in the fall of 2002 should expire. In fact, it has expired, because we have shown there is no nexus or was no nexus between Saddam Hussein and terrorism. There were no weapons of mass destruction; and, of course, we know that Saddam Hussein is no longer in power. 
   Unfortunately, our President has expanded the resolution, building on it, surging troops, and the great loss of life has harmed the United States. 
   There's been no diplomacy, there's no reconstruction, and the government of Iraq is weak. I hope that when we debate this question tomorrow that we will recognize that the best solution is a diplomatic, a political and social solution that requires a reconstruction, if you will, of Iraq, the inclusion of the allies surrounding the region, the engagement with Syria and Jordan and Saudi Arabia, working with NATO. But, more importantly, it requires that we redeploy out of Iraq; and I hope we will consider at some point the idea of the resolution expiring. 
   It is time to save lives, those of our soldiers, and to bring them home in dignity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SMALL BUSINESS FAIRNESS IN CONTRACTING ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1873, the Small Business Fairness in Contracting Act. From the bodegas of the Bronx to your favorite family owned restaurant scattered across the plains of small town America, small businesses are the backbone of the American economy. These entities epitomize the spirit of the American dream, and they speak to everything that is wonderful about our society. Small businesses represent an opportunity for those individuals who dare to dream, who take a chance, and who wish to fulfill that entrepreneurial spirit that built this mighty Nation. I find it interesting that we are giving this bill consideration in the midst of a heated immigration debate, because one will find that a significant number of immigrants start small businesses as a means to realizing the American dream. They enrich the local community while bringing in much needed tax revenue, the same revenue that helped build New York City, Chicago, and Boston back at the turn of the 20th century. Turning our focus back to H.R. 1873, the Small Business Fairness in Contracting  Act, I rise in strong support of this legislation as it ensures that the federal government maintains a strong commitment to small businesses, as they try to remain competitive in a growing global economy. 
   This legislation increases the government-wide goal for participation by small-business concerns in all contracts awarded in a fiscal year to no less than 25 percent, from the current 23 percent. This legislation also increases the government-wide goal for procurement for small disadvantaged and women-owned businesses to 8 percent from 5 percent. The bill also requires each federal agency to submit to the SBA and Congress a detailed plan outlining how the agency plans to meet its small-business goals each fiscal year. 
   As a body, we the members of this 110th Congress have a duty to protect the needs of the average American. By passing this legislation we ensure the owners of small businesses across the country that the 110th Congress eagerly performed their duties. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SMALL BUSINESS FAIRNESS IN CONTRACTING ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished Chair for yielding and let me also thank the distinguished chairwoman and ranking member for their leadership on this very important issue of small business, and thank them for the series of bills that have come to the floor that are like building blocks in helping small businesses across America. I would like to thank the majority committee staff for working with my staff. I would like to thank Mr. Tsehai for working on I think an important issue. 
   Let me quickly say that this amendment comes from experience of some of the frustration that small businesses will express coming to your office. The Federal Government is big, and the refuge for small businesses is the SBA. They look for incentives. They look for instruction. They look for guidance. And so my amendment simply says that when there is a dispute and there is a response by the FDA and an action is taken, any action with regard to any disagreement between the SBA and contract procurement agency, this resolve should be put on the Web site. 
   This is an important part of educating small businesses about their action and gives them an empowerment. And I say that in the backdrop of so many businesses that were housed in Houston who fled New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. Many businesses were there. They were looking to get restarted back in New Orleans. And the confusion of not being able to access what happened in their request or what happened in a dispute led me to believe that more information on the Web site of the SBA would be extremely helpful. 
   So I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. It simply provides an opportunity for the Small Business Administration to post on their Web site any action taken and the result achieved with regards to any disagreement between the SBA and any contract procurement agency. 
   I yield to the chairwoman of the full committee, Congresswoman Vel&#225;zquez.     
   Ms. VEL&#193;ZQUEZ. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. 
   We accept this amendment which will require the Administrator of SBA to make public the actions taken on behalf of small businesses or trade associations with regard to bundled contracts. More importantly, it will publicize the results of their actions. 
   I look forward to working with my colleague on this amendment which will add transparency to the bundling appeals process. 
   I, again, want to thank the gentlewoman from Texas for her work. I urge adoption of the amendment, and I yield to Ranking Member Chabot. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SMALL BUSINESS FAIRNESS IN CONTRACTING ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you very much. I thank the chairwoman and the ranking member. And, Mr. Chairman, it's always good when light comes into this place and we have consensus; and I'd ask my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for allowing me to explain my amendment to H.R. 1873, the ``Small Business Fairness in Contracting Act.'' 
   My amendment, which enjoys full support from Chairwoman Vel&#225;zquez, brings transparency, accountability and responsiveness to the process of procuring federal contracts. By mandating that the Small Business Administration (SBA) post on their Web site any action taken and the result achieved, with regards to any disagreement between the SBA and the contract procurement agency, individuals can be assured that their government is open and honest. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure transparency and accountability of the SBA to the small businesses it was designed to protect and assist. 
   My amendment is straightforward. My amendment is vital. My amendment is essential. And my amendment is bipartisan. 
   We may not realize the impact that small businesses have on our lives, but they represent the sole diner that is open on a late night trip, the catering service that turns a family gathering into a lifetime of memories, or the mechanic that will not allow your first car to die. 
   In conclusion, we the members of the 110th Congress are sending the right message to the American people and small business owners that we are committed to eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse.  
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SMALL BUSINESS FAIRNESS IN CONTRACTING ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished chairman for his yielding to me and appreciate his leadership in the Speaker's chair this evening. 
   Let me again express my appreciation to the chairwoman of the full Committee on Small Business and, as well, the ranking member for their assistance in this amendment and their staff and my staff as well. 
   This amendment is one that reflects, again, that small businesses are small businesses, and they need our assistance. They also work with a number of agencies, and those agencies have contracting procurement offices. Those, of course, are challenges for many small businesses, one, to have a road map of how to get a procurement from a large, if you will, government agency. Many times, there may be disputes. 
   This amendment simply says that any disagreement between the SBA and the contracting procurement agency, the appropriate House and Senate committees with jurisdiction over the matter should be informed. This includes the Committees on Small Business and Oversight and Government Reform. This, of course, is designed to ensure that both the SBA and the procuring agency are accountable and forthcoming to the committees which have jurisdiction over the procuring agency as it relates to small businesses and meeting SBA and congressionally mandated goals. Of course, this emphasizes the fact to make sure that we do have the widespread of small businesses, women-owned businesses, minority-owned businesses. 
   My amendment is simple; my amendment is, I think, helpful; and my amendment is necessary and bipartisan. Small businesses are the backbone of our society, and they represent an American dream for numerous families and provide much-needed revenue to the local municipalities they live in. So I therefore ask that that amendment be accepted.  
   I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for allowing me to explain my amendment to H.R. 1873, the ``Small Business Fairness in Contracting Act.'' 
   My amendment has the full support of Chairwoman Vel&#225;zquez and mandates that whenever there is a disagreement between the SBA and the contracting procurement agency, the appropriate House and Senate committees with jurisdiction over the matter are informed. This includes the Committees on Small Business and Oversight & Government Reform. This amendment is designed to ensure that both the SBA and the procuring agency are accountable and forthcoming to the committees which have jurisdiction over the procuring agency, (as it relates to small businesses and meeting SBA and congressionally mandated goals.) 
   My amendment is simple. My amendment is important. My amendment is necessary. And my amendment is bi-partisan. 
   Small businesses are the backbone of our society. They represent the American dream for numerous families, and provide much needed revenue to the local municipalities they serve. The very nature of small businesses tend to create a bond between customer and shop owner that can not be duplicated within the confines of our super-malls, or on the never ending maze we call the internet. Small business owners value the relationship they share with their customers, and tend to go above and beyond the normal call of duty to meet their clients' needs.  
   Mr. Chairman, I would yield to the distinguished gentlelady from New York (Ms. Vel&#225;zquez). 
   Ms. VEL&#193;ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentlelady for yielding. 
   We are prepared to accept this amendment. The gentlelady's amendment provides a measure of enforcement. It requires agencies to send copies of letters in which they have disagreed with the SBA's attempts to maximize the usage of small businesses on bundled contracts to the relevant authorizing committee. 
   The committees will soon become familiar with the extent to which agencies within their jurisdiction are bundling contracts and will have a better handle on the extent of this problem. 
   I urge adoption of this amendment, and I yield to the ranking member, Mr. Chabot. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me compliment the gentleman for beginning his special order with the reference to Dr. King. Might I just add how excited I am that Members are going home to their districts to be able to commemorate this holiday. 
   Might I just cite, for the first time in Houston, Council Member Ada Edwards and many other elected officials and myself will be walking silently. We love parades, and we will be commemorating that, but we will be walking silently. I want to pay tribute to that. 
   The AFL-CIO will be in Houston, its national officers and representatives, the Reverend Al Sharpton, commemorating. 
   Finally, we will have what we call the Frontiersmen breakfast, an annual event, for corporate Houston. I only cite that not to highlight Houston, but to say all over America, different representations, different communities, will be celebrating and commemorating his holiday, which shows the broadness of his legacy. 
   I thank you for allowing me to speak and I thank the King family as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE AMERICAN DEMOCRACY -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am always delighted to have the opportunity to follow my distinguished colleague from Tennessee. She has a breadth of assessment that provides insight, but I respectfully disagree with much of the commentary that has been spoken to in the last hour. 
   That challenge that the American people gave to us on November 7, 2006, was to go in a new direction. It was to fix the broken and improve the conditions of livelihood and life for the American public. 
   So I thank Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer, Majority Whip Clyburn and Chairman Emanuel and Vice Chairman Larson for recognizing that for almost 4 years large populations of individuals, your parents, your grandparents, have languished in the confusion of Medicare Part D, when they have fallen, sunken into a hole, and the enormous cost has overtaken them. 
   The veterans know that we have stood fast on their behalf. Therefore, any disparity, disparate treatment to our veterans will be immediately fixed. 
   I know that it was the Democrats who fought consistently to ensure that veterans hospitals were not closed by promoting, if you will, the veterans health care bill that was passed in order to give the veterans' hospitals more money. 
   So I am grateful of this democracy. And I came to the floor to cite the leadership of a giant of an American whom we will honor on Monday. This Congress in a Special Order that I will lead will honor him again on Tuesday evening, January 16, for Members to join us in commemorating and celebrating the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King.     
   I raise his name in the context of my good friend from Tennessee, because his whole legacy, although not admired during the time he was working, was to try and help America, to promote America's conscience. 
   I am reminded of his letter from a Birmingham jail, and I encourage my colleagues to join us in the third hour on Tuesday, the 16th, when he was in essence thrown into jail for his work of advocacy in Birmingham. Bull Connor ruled, dogs and hoses were used to attack human beings, and the clergy of America wrote and asked why this pastor had gone to Birmingham to be disruptive. 
   This is both eloquent, but biblically grounded, but really secularly teaching words that he said. He said, ``I am taking the time to write this letter to you because I knew it was important. Moreover, I am cognizant of the interrelatedness of all communities and states. I  cannot sit idly by in Atlanta and not be concerned about what happens in Birmingham. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. Never again can we afford, never again can we afford, to live with the narrow, provisional, outside agitator idea. Anyone who lives inside the United States can never be considered an outsider anywhere within its bounds.'' And lastly he said, ``Like Paul, I must constantly respond to the Macedonian call for aid.'' 
   Dr. King was arrested repeatedly. But he left America the direction and the instruction of rendering aid, and as Members of the United States Congress, it is our challenge to render aid to America and to all of her citizens, to ensure that we provide them with the life and the dignity and the justice and the freedom promised by our Constitution. 
   I look forward to joining with my fellow Members as I lead a special order on Tuesday, January 16th, to truly account for his life. But I also am grateful this week for the minimum wage and prescription drug benefit reform and 9/11 reforms and a number of other issues we are looking forward to, will in fact honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4, the ``Medicare Prescription Drug Negotiation Act of 2007,'' a bill that will require the government to negotiate for lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries and people with disabilities in the Medicare program. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to pay special tribute to my good friend, Chairman JOHN DINGELL, for his lifetime of devoted service to the cause of affordable health care for all Americans. I also thank the Democratic leadership, led by Speaker PELOSI, making affordable prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries a central issue in the last election, which saw the voters return the Democrats to the majority in this chamber for the first time in twelve years. Democrats promised to chart a new direction for America if given the chance to lead. Today, we take another giant step toward fulfilling that promise. 
   Mr. Speaker, under the current law, which was passed in the dead of night with little time for members of Congress to review the hundreds of pages of text involved in such a complex proposal and was written largely by and for the pharmaceutical industry, Medicare is explicitly prohibited from negotiating lower prices. It is past time for Congress to repeal this provision and put the needs of the American people before those of special interests. 
   Allowing the government to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices puts the interests and well-being of ordinary Americans first by making health care more affordable for Medicare beneficiaries, who include millions of our country's most vulnerable citizens, seniors and individuals with disabilities. Our seniors and individuals with disabilities should not be forced to choose between buying medications and paying for rent or food. Lower prescription drug prices could go a long way to eliminate this Hobbesian choice. 
   The ability to negotiate the cost of prescription drugs purchased through the Medicare program also will generate tremendous savings to the taxpayers. We have a duty to the taxpayers to get the best return on their hard-earned money, especially on costly pharmaceuticals for which the federal government facilitates purchases in such large quantities. 
   Drug prices under the Medicare prescription drug plan are more than 80 percent higher than prices negotiated by other agencies in the federal government and more than 60 percent higher than prices in Canada. In 2007, many beneficiaries in private drug plans will see their premiums increase by an average of ten percent, and some premiums will rise more than six-fold if they stay in the same plan. 
   We cannot afford to stay with the same faulty plan but must change direction to reflect the will of the American people. The American people overwhelmingly support having the Secretary of HHS negotiate for lower prescription drug prices on behalf of Medicare. The bill also has the support of a number of organizations including the AARP, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, the Consumer's Union, the AFL-CIO, and Families USA. 
   We have heard the voice of the American people and we must not ignore our duty to act in their best interests. Allowing the federal government to negotiate for lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries is merely a start to our fulfilling that duty. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Medicare Prescription Drug Negotiation Act of 2007, represents a win-win situation. Medicare beneficiaries will be able to obtain needed prescription drugs at prices they can afford and the taxpayers will get a greater return on their dollars by taking advantage of economies of scale. I urge all members to vote for H.R. 4, which will enable the federal government to negotiate for lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (STANDING UP FOR SENIORS -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the body that we stand in is the people's House. It is our obligation to address the grievances of the people who petition us. Thank goodness today, by reforming the prescription drug benefit part D, H.R. 4 addressed the grievances of millions and millions of seniors and small pharmaceutical companies or pharmacies. 
   Seventy-five percent of the drug program is paid by taxpayers. Thank goodness that we worked today on behalf of seniors who have suffered for years facing that terrible doughnut hole. Thank goodness we are negotiating a cheaper price. Thank goodness we are doing like the veterans hospitals are doing for veterans. Thank goodness we have corrected that 6-hour open vote of sheer despair, of pressuring all of the Members of Congress to vote the way our Republican friends wanted them to do, which is vote the worst prescription drug benefit program we have ever had in America. We did a disservice to Medicare. Today we fixed it. 
   I am glad for seniors we stood up so they could be heard. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative GEORGE MILLER. This significant piece of legislation provides greater access to colleges and universities, making higher education affordable for all Americans, not just the wealthy. 
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This legislation will increase funding to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, as well as Hispanic and other minority-serving institutions, and it will expand college access and support for low-income and minority students. 
   This legislation contains provisions allowing students to receive Pell Grant scholarships year-round, and it increases the Pell Grant maximum to $9,000. In addition, it strengthens college readiness programs, namely the TRIO and GEAR UP college readiness and support programs for low-income and first-generation students. These increases will expand college access for low-income and minority students. 
   In Texas, over 87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to approximately 48,000 African-Americans attending college or university. The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus the number of young people in college, particularly in the African-American community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education continues to be one of the main pathways to social and economic mobility, particularly in the African-American and Hispanic communities. 
   Mr. Chairman, this legislation contains important provisions opening up even wider opportunities for our veterans. Our own Congressman CHARLES RANGEL was enlisted in the Army before even finishing high school. Through the G.I. Bill, he obtained his bachelor's degree and eventually his law degree to become Chairman of Ways and Means. H.R. 4137 goes beyond what the G.I. Bill did for Chairman RANGEL, increasing college aid and housing aid for not only veterans, but their families. 
   This legislation creates a new scholarship program for active duty military personnel and family members, including children and spouses of active duty military service members or veterans. It establishes support centers to help veterans succeed in college and graduate. Finally, it ensures fairness in student aid and housing aid for veterans, making it easier for them to attend college while also fulfilling their military service duties. 
   Mr. Chairman, I would also like to express my strong support for an amendment introduced by my distinguished colleague, Congressman DANNY DAVIS, restoring safeguards to student loan borrowers. Mr. Chairman, students who take out loans borrow money as part of their pursuit to better themselves and contribute to the advancement of our Nation and economy. However, current bankruptcy laws apply the same severe standards to student borrowers that it applies to those trying to escape child support payments, alimony, overdue taxes, and criminal fines. 
   I do not believe those of our sons and daughters should be punished for trying to get an education. All student loans are currently non-dischargeable in bankruptcy, except in cases on a judicial finding of undue hardship (an extremely difficult standard 
   to meet). Under Mr. DAVIS's amendment, government student loans and loans made by nonprofit entities would remain non-dischargeable; other student loans, made by for-profit banks and other lenders, would continue to be non-dischargeable for the first five years after they come due, and after that time they would be treated like other unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy. Mr. Chairman, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and to work to restore bankruptcy protection to private student loans. 
   Understanding the federal application for federal student aid can be challenging and complex even for the most knowledgeable parent. The College Opportunity and Affordability Act would streamline and simplify the application process giving families the tools they need to properly plan for their college expenses. 
   This legislation will reform our higher education system ensuring students and their families have the information they need to understand their borrowing options when applying for federal and private loans. 
   Mr. Chairman, as an active member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I am extremely supportive of the provisions in this legislation that boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans. Last year's tragedy at Virginia Tech has illustrated the horror to which students might be exposed, and natural disasters in recent years have underlined the necessity of having campus disaster plans. 
   This legislation helps all colleges develop and implement state-of-the-art emergency systems and campus safety plans, and it requires the Department of Education to develop and maintain a disaster plan in preparation for emergencies. In addition, this legislation creates a National Center for Campus Safety at the Department of Justice to work in collaboration with the COPS program. Finally, it establishes a disaster relief loan program, to help schools recover and rebuild in the event of a disaster. 
   The cost of higher education has risen to the point that it has affected our workforce and our public service sectors. This country needs firefighters, public defenders, law enforcement officials, and educators just as much as it needs doctors and investment brokers. H.R. 4137 would encourage students to enter vital public service jobs by authorizing up to $10,000 in loan forgiveness. 
   This important piece of legislation gives our youth, our veterans, and our families the opportunity to not only dream of attending college but actually realize that dream. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4137. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 4137, COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative George Miller. This significant piece of legislation provides greater access to colleges and universities making higher education affordable for all Americans, not just the wealthy. 
   A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and economic mobility in this country. As a Member and Senior Whip of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This legislation will increase funding to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, as well as Hispanic and other minority-serving institutions, and it will expand college access and support for low-income and minority students. 
   This legislation contains provisions allowing students to receive Pell Grant scholarships year-round, and it increases the Pell Grant maximum to $9,000. In addition, it strengthens college readiness programs, namely the TRIO and GEAR UP college readiness and support programs for low-income and first-generation students. These increases will expand college access for low-income and minority students. The amendment offered by my colleagues Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson and Representative Don Young, expands upon current Pell Grant eligibility allowing children who lost a mother or father to our wars in Iraq or Afghanistan eligible for the maximum amount of Pell Grant assistance. In this age of global war on terror, it is imperative that we ensure that those left behind by those who the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation are given the greatest opportunity our country can provide. As such, I encourage all my colleagues to join me in supporting this important amendment. 
   In Texas, over 87,000 African-Americans are incarcerated compared to approximately 48,000 African-Americans attending college or university. The disparity between the percentages of our youth in prison versus the number of young people in college, particularly in the African-American community, is disturbing to say the least. Higher education continues to be one of the main pathways to social and economic mobility, particularly in the African-American and Hispanic communities. I strongly support the amendment offered by my distinguished colleagues, Representatives Alcee Hastings and Representative Linda S&#225;nchez, authorizing a nationwide program through the Department of Education to promote holistic community-centered partnerships aimed at mitigating gang violence and reducing recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders previously detained for gang-related offenses. This amendment a second-chance to America's most vulnerable youth, I fully support the vision of this amendment and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation contains important provisions opening up even wider opportunities for our veterans by increasing college aid and housing aid for not only veterans, but their families. This legislation creates a new scholarship program for active duty military personnel and family members, including children and spouses of active duty military service members or veterans. It establishes support centers to help veterans succeed in college and graduate. Finally, it ensures fairness in student aid and housing aid for veterans, making it easier for them to attend college while also fulfilling their military service duties. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would also like to express my strong support for an amendment introduced by my distinguished colleague, Congressman Danny Davis, restoring safeguards to student loan borrowers. Mr. Speaker, students who take out loans borrow money as part of their pursuit to better themselves and contribute to the advancement of our nation and economy. However, current bankruptcy laws apply the same severe standards to student borrowers that it applies to those trying to escape child support payments, alimony, overdue taxes, and criminal fines. Under Mr. Davis's amendment, government student loans and loans made by nonprofit entities would remain non-dischargeable; other student loans, made by for-profit banks and other lenders, would continue to be non-dischargeable for the first five years after they come due, and after that time they would be treated like other unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy. Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and to work to restore bankruptcy protection to private student loans. 
   Understanding the federal application for Federal Student Aid can be challenging and complex even for the most knowledgeable parent. The College Opportunity and Affordability Act would streamline and simplify the application process giving families the tools they need to properly plan for their college expenses. This legislation will reform our higher education system ensuring students and their families have they information they need to understand their borrowing options when applying for federal and private loans. 
   Mr. Speaker, as an active Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, I am extremely supportive of the provisions in this legislation that boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans. Last year's tragedy at Virginia Tech has illustrated the horror to which students might be exposed, and natural disasters in recent years have underlined the necessity of having campus disaster plans. 
   This legislation helps all colleges develop and implement state-of-the-art emergency systems and campus safety plans, and it requires that the Department of Education to develop and maintain a disaster plan in preparation for emergencies. In addition, this legislation creates a National Center for Campus Safety at the Department of Justice to work in collaboration with the COPS program. Finally, it establishes a disaster relief loan program, to help schools recover and rebuild in the event of a disaster. 
   This important piece of legislation gives our youth, our veterans, and our families the opportunity to not only dream of attending college but actually realize that dream. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4137.      
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DEMOCRATS WANT TO CONTINUE MOVING NATION IN A NEW DIRECTION -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, today the House will address one of the most important issues in America's future, that is, the opportunity to give young people a chance for a higher education. H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, does just that. It is interesting, however, that the President's budget unfortunately does not recognize that opportunity, and it is in the business of cutting those opportunities for our young people. 
   The supplemental education opportunity grants for needy undergraduates is now being cut. So I hope that on the floor today we will make a statement to support our schools. 
   I represent Texas Southern University, a school that has been under seige by its Republican State government. A school that is historically black received moneys from the past administration and the desegregation settlements. But yet even today, it is not receiving the funding that it should receive from the State of Texas. 
   I will be introducing legislation that will ensure that historically black colleges, Hispanic-serving colleges cannot be undermined by State government funding when they come under the supervision of the Department of Education. Our bill is a good bill. It's a step forward. 
   Mr. President, I hope that you will recognize that we cannot cut the opportunities of young people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ECONOMIC STIMULUS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman, Mr. Rangel; and to Mr. Kanjorski; the whole team; and our most forthright and determined Speaker and this bipartisan leadership that has responded to the pain and the hurt of so many Americans. 
   Some would ask the question why are we moving so fast and why are we investing in people who are those who would receive dollars who happen to be low income. Because people are hurting. So I'm glad that we have these values that have created this vehicle to help America and that we are including help and rebates for the elderly. We are including moneys for 35 million families who work but yet make too little to pay income tax in the way that you think of them paying, but they do pay taxes. They will get a rebate. Disabled veterans will get a rebate. 
   But I look forward to the time when we can extend the unemployment, we can expand food stamps and Medicaid only because people are hurting. Why are they hurting? Because we are spending $120 billion in Iraq. For the gentleman who just spoke, if we stop doing that, we will be able to provide for the engine of the economy. 
   Why do we need it? Because in this budget right here that the President has offered, $39 million will be taken away in social services block grants from Texans and millions of dollars for the rest of Americans. Why are we hurting? Because $47 million will be taken away from Texans as it relates to community block grants. And 200 communities will be impacted. More people hurting. 
   This is the right direction. This economic stimulus package is quick. It gives back to families. It gives back to hardworking families. It gives back to moderate- and low-income families. And it says that Warren Buffet is right. Give money to hardworking Americans so that they can make a difference. Give money to invest in communities so we can build up the economic economy. 
   And, lastly, let me say thank you so very much for the increase in the FHA loans of $729,000. 
   People are hurting, and we need to be able to provide for those people who are hurting. A moratorium on foreclosures is necessary. Support the economic stimulus.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Senate Amendments to the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. I would like to thank Speaker PELOSI for her leadership on this issue, as well as my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have worked together to overcome partisan divisions to work together to stimulate our national economy. This legislation will inject over $106 billion into the economy in 2008, over 2/3 of which will come in the form of tax rebate checks, given directly to individuals and families. I also want to thank the Senate for their amendments which extend the stimulus rebate checks to 250,000 disabled veterans and at least 20 million additional American seniors living on Social Security. 
   However, while I support this legislation, I would like to express my concern about some of this bill's omissions. requested and had hoped that this legislation would include language declaring that it is the sense of Congress that a moratorium of up to 90 days should be declared on all home foreclosures, and that it is the sense of Congress that the financial industry should allow for the reconstruction and reconfiguration of the mortgage loan market. 
   Madam Speaker, I would have liked to see the following language included in the final legislation, agreed on by both Houses and signed into law by the President: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (SECTION 8 VOUCHER REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentlelady from Illinois for yielding me the time. 
   Mr. Chairman, this is a historic occasion, a historic time. I want to express my appreciation to the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Frank, and the chairwoman of the subcommittee, Congresswoman Waters, and the ranking members, for what I hope will ultimately be an enormous step forward for the homeless and the underserved. 
   I also want to acknowledge my colleague and friend, Congressman Al Green, who has worked so hard to ensure that cities who have the background of Houston, Texas, are also accounted for. Those are cities that have for years had thousands of individuals on the waiting list. 
   I think the number 25,000 in Houston has literally become a number of the decade, because there has been a waiting list of 25,000 for as long as I can remember, having served on the Houston City Council. 
   I am very pleased to acknowledge that we are going to reorder the formula so that cities can borrow against moneys that are already in their account, so that the cities that have an excessive number of individuals on the waiting list can still be able to utilize those dollars. 
   I want to pay special attention to the resources that will be utilized for the disabled and special resources that are going to be utilized for innovative programs dealing with, for example, the housing innovation program, which has previously been Moving to Work. 
   One of the issues that I hope that we will look forward to is giving incentives to cities to help them reduce the waiting list. Now, you can change the formula, and I had an amendment that would provide at least a pilot study to construct, if you will, an incentive to make sure that cities took advantage of this new structure and worked hard to reduce the waiting list. 
   It is one thing to have the laws in place. It is another thing to have housing authorities sit by and just watch, rather than working very hard to bring down their list. 
   I am very grateful that we now have an understanding that there is less and less affordable housing being built in America. These individuals that use section 8 vouchers are working people, people who are paying their taxes, who cannot find housing in high-priced markets. This section 8 voucher program will allow these individuals to purchase homes. They are creative, unique and forward thinking, because they are individuals who have put their stake down in these particular areas. 
   I am also hoping, as I close, and I am hoping that we will continue to work on this issue, is to ensure individuals will not be put out because of combat pay for soldiers who are coming back. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1851, the ``Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007.'' I support this bipartisan measure for three important reasons. First, H.R. 1851 reforms Section 8 vouchers to make their allocation more efficient and targets them based on need. Second, the legislation also increases access for rural families, and expands the number of families receiving housing vouchers. Third, the bill permits families to use housing vouchers as a down payment on a first-time home purchase, and includes other provisions to encourage family self-sufficiency including incentives for families to obtain employment, increase earned income, pursue higher education, and save for retirement. 
   I wish to express my special thanks to the Chair of the Financial Services Committee, Mr. FRANK, for his leadership and commitment to affordable housing for low and moderate income families. Let me also thank the gentlewoman from California, Ms. WATERS, the Chair  of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity for her yeoman work in bringing this important and much needed legislation to the House floor today. 
   Mr. Chairman, a strong America requires strong families and communities. Affordable housing is critical to maintaining strong families and communities. Section 8 housing vouchers provide vital rental assistance for low-income families, seniors, and the disabled to help them afford housing. The Section 8 housing voucher program contributes to the strengthening of our nation. Let me discuss briefly for our colleagues some of the more beneficial provisions in the legislation. 
   The legislation eliminates inefficiencies that have resulted in $1.4 billion in unused funds and provides incentives for agencies to use funds to assist more families. Thus, the voucher Funding Formula is made more efficient and will lead to an increase in the number of families receiving vouchers. And that is good because the number of housing vouchers issued has declined more than 150,000 since 2004. The bill authorizes 20,000 incremental vouchers in each of the next five years, for a total of 100,000 new vouchers. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also support this legislation because it protects tenant rights, promotes home ownership, and encourages economic self-sufficiency for low income voucher and public housing families. The legislation also protects housing agencies adversely affected by formula changes, by allowing them to use voucher reserves in the transition to maintain the number of families being assisted. 
   Homeownership is promoted because, for the first time, families will be permitted to use housing vouchers as a down-payment on a first-time home purchase, and to use vouchers for purchase of a manufactured home on leased land. Economic self-sufficiency for low income voucher and public housing families is encouraged because H.R. 1851 includes several incentives for families to obtain employment, increase earned income, pursue higher education, and save for retirement. The bill also increases voucher opportunities for lower-income working families in rural areas. 
   Finally, the bill contains several tenant protections, including provisions to preserve voucher families' ability to move to other areas, to address excessive voucher rent burdens, to provide for more accurate fair market rent calculations, and to protect voucher holders in units that are in need of repair. 
   Mr. Chairman, for millions of our fellow citizens, finding safe and affordable housing is still a constant and often futile struggle. Today, about 1.4 million households nationwide participate in the voucher program; but not all qualified applicants are guaranteed housing. The demand for housing assistance consistently exceeds the limited resources available from the Department of Housing and Urban Development and local government agencies. Long waiting lists have, unfortunately, become very common. 
   In my hometown of Houston, the largest city in Texas, and the fourth largest in the United States, there is a multi-year backlog of applications for individuals seeking government assistance. It is not unusual for individuals and families to be placed on the waiting list for more than three years. 
   I believe it imperative that something be done to reduce this backlog. That is why I offered an amendment to the bill that would establish a pilot program to aid in the reduction of Section 8 waiting list. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also offered an amendment providing that funds received by a section 8 family from a family member serving in the Armed Forces in a hostile combat theater be excluded from the computation of income for eligibility purposes. 
   The military is one of Americans most precious resources and one whose efforts ought to never be taken for granted. Daily, these men and women in uniform risk their lives to ensure the national security and safety of our country. One way to express our gratitude to them is to offer relief to their family members. 
   Eligibility for housing vouchers is typically based on the family size and the total annual gross income, which ought to not exceed 50 percent of the median income for the area in which they choose to live. HUD's Housing Voucher (HCV) handbook lists both special pay (except pay received by a service member who is exposed to hostile fire) and the Base Housing Allowance (BAH) as income for purposes of determining a family's income eligibility. Excluding monies received by section 8 tenants from family members serving in combat zones when evaluating income eligibility for Section 8 housing would provide a little piece of mind to the families of these soldiers serving overseas. 
   The final amendment I offered sought to provide economic opportunities to Section 8 tenants by requiring the Secretary of the Housing and Urban Development carry out programs whereby public housing agencies develop curriculums and policies designed to increase employment and contracting opportunities for recipients of tenant-based rental assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937. These economic opportunities can be in the form of maintenance, inspection, and management of rental properties for which rental assistance is provided. 
   Families living with Section 8 vouchers can achieve self-sufficiency through active participation in education and employment. Self-sufficiency eliminates the need to be dependent on public assistance and increase one's self esteem and sense of accomplishment. My amendment was intended to help section 8 become more economically independent. 
   But taken as a whole, Mr. Chairman, H.R. 1851 is a very good bill and represents a significant step forward in the direction of an enlightened policy of affordable housing. Accordingly, I strongly support H.R. 1851, the ``Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007.'' I urge my colleagues to join in voting for this much need legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for allowing members of that committee to show their commitment through their legislative work in a hearing at the early stages of his leadership when we were allowed to present solutions. They were not Republican solutions or Democratic solutions. They were solutions for those of us who love America, and I just want to simply reinforce that. I thank Mr. Skelton for his leadership. 
   I have legislation that declares a military success, and I rise today to make it clear that I believe that the fallen in battle are heroes, and those who still fight carry their banner, for 3,611 have died, and I don't know why we're not on this floor declaring a military victory, thanking our soldiers. 
   And my good friend from Texas says that he supports the Iraq Study Group. So do I and I have legislation. We all have legislation that responds to the Iraq Study Group. I might remind him that that report, bipartisan report, speaks articulately to redeployment, and so when we look at the costs of the war, $120 billion, Americans are asking, should one more drop of blood be shed? And my answer to that is, no. Should we engage? Yes. Should we involve in the surge of diplomacy? Absolutely. 
   We want to make sure that all of those nation states can work to help solve the divide, the civil war. But we must face the facts that this process that the President is continuing to repeat does not work. It is wracked with corruption and misdirection. There were no weapons of mass destruction. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I have been disturbed this whole week as I listened to the Secretary of Homeland Security speak about his gut feeling of the possibility of a terrorist attack. I'm a member of that committee. I live every day with the idea that the question will be asked by Americans to the Homeland Security Committee and the Homeland Security Department, does the Secretary realize that we have fueled the fires of terrorism by training terrorists in this war. 
   And so when I speak of why we must end, it is to save lives. It is to reconcile Iraq, and it is to make America safer. I ask for support of the underlying legislation.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment From Iraq Act. I rise in strong support of this legislation because I am listening, and responding to the will of the American people. Last November 2006, Americans went to polls by the millions united in their resolve to vote for change. They voted for a new direction and a change in the Bush administration's disastrous policy in Iraq. The new Democratic majority heard them and responded by passing H.R. 1591, the Iraq Accountability Act. The President vetoed the bill, demanding instead a continuation of the ancien r&#233;gime under which the Republican-led Congress gave him a blank check to mismanage the occupation and reconstruction of Iraq. 
   Those days are over. No matter how many veto threats the President issues, this Congress is not going to give him a blank check to escalate and continue the war ad infinitum. It is long past time for change in Iraq. It is time for the people and Government of Iraq to take primary responsibility for their own country. It is time for the President to recognize the reality on the ground in Iraq. The time when a surge in troops is useful and necessary is past. It is now time to redeploy our troops and launch a diplomatic surge for national and political reconciliation in Iraq. H.R. 2956 will help achieve this goal and that is why I support the measure. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is no more important issue facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the war in Iraq. It is a subject which agitates the passions of all Americans, including Members of Congress. The Framers understood that while the military does the fighting, a nation goes to war. That is why the Framers lodged the power to declare war in the Congress, the branch of Government closest to the people. They knew that the decision to go to war was too important to be left to the whim of a single person, no matter how wise or well-informed he or she might be. 
   Four years ago, President Bush stood under a banner that proclaimed ``Mission Accomplished.'' If the mission was to further place our troops in harm's way at the hands of insurgents and sectarian violence, then it is mission accomplished. After spending more than $450 billion sacrificing the lives of 3,611 of America's finest citizen-soldiers, what have we accomplished and where are we headed? 
   I cannot support the President's waging of a war that has no clear direction, does not meet the benchmarks that the President set, and has no visible target. 
   Four years after launching the invasion, conquest, and occupation of Iraq, the evidence is clear and irrefutable: The preemptive invasion of Iraq, while a spectacularly executed military operation, was a strategic blunder without parallel in the history of American foreign policy. This is what can happen when the Congress allows itself to be stampeded into authorizing a president to launch a preemptive war of choice. 
   It is time to change our strategy in Iraq. It is time to engage the key stakeholders in the Middle East and make real strides towards securing a 
   just and lasting peace in Iraq and for the Iraqi people. And most important, bring our troops home so they can be reunited with their families, friends, and neighbors.  
   That is why, Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2956. The Responsible Redeployment From Iraq Act requires a responsible redeployment of U.S. troops beginning within 120 days of enactment and ending by April 1, 2008. The legislation requires the President to publicly justify the post-redeployment missions for the U.S. military in Iraq and the minimum number of troops necessary to carry out those missions. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation is consistent with the advice of military and foreign policy experts, ensures the safety of our men and women in uniform, addresses our commitment to fighting terrorism, and reflects the will of the American people. 
   Mr. Speaker, the need for a new direction in Iraq could not be clearer. In the face of mounting evidence that progress is not being made in Iraq, military leaders, defense experts, Republican and Democratic Members of Congress, and the American people are demanding change. Yet the President continues to urge continued support for a failed policy that is not making America safer or supporting our troops. 
   In a report released today by the White House, the administration concedes that violence continues in Iraq and that the Iraqi Government has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January and political reconciliation is nonexistent. By the Bush administration's own admission, there is unsatisfactory progress on all of the political reconciliation benchmarks announced by the President on January 10, 2007. 
   In fact, just this week, the National Security Network reported that since the President announced his ``surge'' policy 6 months ago, more than 25,000 troops have been sent to Iraq, approximately 600 have been killed and more than 3,000 have been wounded. 
   Mr. Speaker, President Bush and Vice President CHENEY have been given numerous chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress to straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is little wonder that the criticism of the administration's failed policy in Iraq is mounting by the day. Respected military leaders, like LTG William Odom, have spoken forcefully. According to Lieutenant General Odom, ``No effective new strategy can be devised for the United States until it begins withdrawing its forces from Iraq. Only that step will break the paralysis that now confronts us.'' 
   Key Republican Senators are joining the chorus of critics. In addition to Foreign Relations Committee Ranking Member Senator RICHARD LUGAR, some of the President's allies in Congress have spoken out. Senator PETE DOMENICI says, ``There's no reason to wait ..... [I am] trying to tell [Bush] that he must change his ways because there is nothing positive happening.'' Senator ELIZABETH DOLE says, ``It is my firm hope and belief that we can start bringing our troops home in 2008.'' Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER says, ``The President needs a new strategy.'' 
   And just this week, in a USA Today/Gallup Poll, more than 70 percent of Americans favor removal of almost all U.S. troops from Iraq by April 2008, leaving a limited number for counterterrorism efforts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2857, the ``Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education Act'' or the ``GIVE Act.'' I would like to thank my colleague Congresswoman MCCARTHY for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, Congressman GEORGE MILLER, for his leadership in bringing the bill to the floor today. 
   Mr. Chairman, this legislation will make vital strides toward expanding and improving key community service programs, including AmeriCorps, VISTA, Senior Corps, and Learn and Serve America. The GIVE Act works to ensure that volunteers, and the organizations that support them, will receive the resources that they need to continue their vital work in our communities. 
   Today's legislation embodies the altruistic spirit that has made our Nation great. Great numbers of Americans donate their time and their unique skills and gifts to our cities and communities, without any expectation of compensation or material reward. According to a 2005 study, 29 percent of the American public, or about 65.4 million people, had volunteered in the past year. 
   This legislation engages our youth and fosters a sense of civic duty. At many of our Historically Black Colleges and Universities the idea of continual service to community is embedded into the very walls of the institution. Right in this city, Howard University has symbolically and yet openly stated its belief in service. Veritas and Utilitas, Truth and Service is on the very seal of the University. Institutions such as Texas Southern University and Texas A&M University continue to provide our young people with leadership skills that are grounded in service and compassion for their fellow man. 
   That is why I was so pleased to see Section 1202 of this legislation, giving special consideration to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and Tribal Colleges and Universities. I want to thank Chairman MILLER for allowing me to add to this great bill. By adding predominately minority community colleges to the list of those to receive special consideration, we help so many more students who have a commitment to service. 
   Our community colleges are growing as many of our returning veterans, single parents, and seniors desire to make a change in their life circumstances and simply cannot afford 
   traditional higher education. A sense of civic engagement is not fostered only among students at Harvard and Berkeley; it is also found among students at community colleges like Houston Community College and North Harris College. I thank the Chairman for recognizing this needed addition and incorporating it into the Manager's Amendment. 
   The GIVE Act would: (1) increase the number of AmeriCorps volunteers from 75,000 to 100,000 by 2012; (2) increase stipends for AmeriCorps volunteers from $4,725 to $5,225 by 2012; (3) initiate a ``Summer of Service'' program for young people from middle school through high school to give them the opportunity to spend a summer in service to their community, for which they would receive a $500 stipend for college or for college preparation; and (4) create an AmeriCorps Alumni Reserves Network aimed at tapping into the skills and experience of alumni volunteers, with a particular focus on assisting during emergencies or natural disasters. 
   I am proud to cosponsor legislation that will add service before self to our leaders of tomorrow. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I was detained in my district on February 28 and March 4 and missed the following rollcall votes: 
   Rollcall vote No. 90, I would have voted ``aye''; 
   Rollcall vote No. 89, I would have voted ``aye''; 
   Rollcall vote No. 88, I would have voted ``aye''; 
   Rollcall vote No. 87, I would have voted ``aye''; 
   Rollcall vote No. 86, I would have voted ``aye''; 
   Rollcall vote No. 85, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Today, I was detained as well with the Dialogue on Diversity, and therefore on the Inslee-Sarbanes amendment to H.R. 2857, I would have voted ``aye.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (H.R. 2857 -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate the chairman of the Education Committee for capturing the spirit of America in H.R. 2857, Generations Invigorating Volunteerism Education Act. I thank my colleague Congresswoman McCarthy for introducing the legislation, and again say that there have been so many success stories that all of us could cite by referring to AmeriCorps, Vista, Senior Corps, and Learn and Serve America. 
   This bill, of course, that we have just been debating works to ensure that volunteers and the organizations that support them will receive the resources that they need to continue their vital work. Many of them engage with other nongovernmental organizations or nonprofits. Some of them work with Habitat for Humanity. Many of them you will find in the Nation's urban and rural schoolhouses. You will find them as role models. You will find them as those who get on the front line when there is Hurricane Katrina or Rita. You find them in institutions such as Texas Southern University and Texas A&M. 
   This is an important legislative initiative. I am delighted to have had an amendment added to this bill and I am delighted to be one of the supporters of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I wish to indicate the positions I would have taken on votes missed because I was unavoidably detained in my district, and, lastly, I was unavoidably detained at a meeting with the Dialogue on Diversity. 
   On rollcall vote No. 90, H.R. 816, I would have voted ``aye''; rollcall vote No. 89, I would have voted ``aye''; rollcall vote No. 88, I would have voted ``aye''; rollcall vote No. 87, I would have voted ``aye''; rollcall vote No. 86, I would have voted ``aye''; rollcall vote No. 85, I would have voted ``aye''; and to the Inslee-Sarbanes amendment No. 11 to H.R. 2857, I was unavoidably detained with Dialogue on Diversity today and I would have voted ``aye.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that my positions on these legislative initiatives be placed in the appropriate place in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1, IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished member of the Rules Committee for yielding. 
   I would like to say to my good friend the provision is simply a 2-year pilot that only indicates the amount of the Intelligence budget. We know how important intelligence is, but I think we need to look at the whole bill of H.R. 1. And many of us sometimes need to be reminded of the enormity of that day. 
   I am very glad to stand here and support the rule for H.R. 1, the 9/11 conference report, because it emphasizes unique and new approaches to security. How more comforted we are as travelers to know that cargo is being inspected in ports, consumers or those who understand how vulnerable ports are. I know it well. I have one of the larger ports in the United States in my community, the Houston port. 
   How many of us are more comforted about cargo being inspected in airlines. How many of us are more comforted by the fact that we will have transportation security grants that go directly to the transportation entities like buses, like airplanes, like subways, like mass transit, Amtrak, and others to focus on the traveling public. 
   How disappointed I am that we didn't recognize the hardworking people who  work for us every day that we could not give collective bargaining rights for the Transportation Security Administration workers. But we are getting better. We are going to do developmental training, professional training. 
   This is a bill to remind us of where we have come from and where we are going. Interoperability, incident command system. 
   And, finally, let me just say we lost lives on 9/11 because we were not prepared in terms of the intelligence community. We were not prepared in terms of supporting the law enforcement community. Today we are prepared. We shall never forget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1, IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. My appreciation to the leadership of our chairman, Chairman Thompson, who has taken the challenge of the 9/11 families, and the 9/11 Commission report more than to his heart. That is why we are here today. 
   I want to thank the ranking member, Mr. King, for working with us on many of these challenges and always raising the voice of bipartisanship as it relates to 9/11. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am very proud, as the subcommittee Chair for Transportation Security in Critical Infrastructure, to have had the opportunity to see some of the elements that are under our subcommittee jurisdiction take a strong stand in the 9/11 conference. 
   I did this earlier today, but I know that sometimes we need to be reminded of the Pentagon and reminded of this tragedy so that we understand today is an enormously important step towards securing the homeland security. 
   One of those aspects of securing the homeland security clearly has to do with providing transportation security. I am very proud that in the course of providing transportation security, we now have jurisdiction to issue transportation security grants so that buses and trains, so that the Amtrak system, mass transit, so that highways and byways will have the opportunity for  these jurisdictions to seek out grants specifically to secure areas that might be subject to the acts of terrorists. 
   Might I also say that we have now interoperability, that we have the ability that so many of our colleagues have worked on to talk to each other. We know the front lines of fighting terrorism has to be that our law enforcement is able to communicate. 
   We are very glad that this bill emphasizes intelligence sharing, which was one of the downfalls of the tragedy of 9/11. I am more than grateful to know that our families, our families sanctioned this bill, who have been so strong, and I salute them. 
   Let me also say that in placing language in the bill to provide transportation security grants and training, I am very glad that Texas Southern University will have a center of excellence that I announce and enjoy with my colleague from Texas, and also will be able to train transportation officials in security.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1), to provide for the implementation of the recommendations of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (9/11 Commission). As a Member of the Conference Committee that worked to reconcile the House and Senate versions of this legislation and to produce this report, I believe it represents a vital step toward securing the Nation. I wish to thank the Chairman of the Conference Committee, Senator Lieberman, as well as the distinguished chair of the House Homeland Security Committee, Congressman Bennie Thompson, for their visionary leadership in shepherding this important legislation through both houses of Congress. Unlike the previous Republican leadership, this Democratic Congress has wholeheartedly embraced the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, a body comprised of ten of the most distinguished citizens of this country. 
   Today Mr. Speaker, we are here to consider a Conference report that will provide for the implementation of the recommendations of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (9/11 Commission). This Conference report closes many critical gaps identified by the 9/11 commission. In its final report, the 9/11 commission concluded that the United States Government had been unprepared for the 2001 terrorist attacks, and made numerous recommendations for how to safeguard the American people. The legislation passed by the House on January 9 and the Senate in mid-March will implement many of these important recommendations. 
   The 9/11 commission report noted the need for additional tools for first responders and emergency personnel. The lack of adequate equipment likely contributed to the deaths of 343 firefighters in New York City on September 11, 2001, when police could not communicate effectively with fire fighters prior to the collapse of the Twin Towers. Deficiencies in communication technologies also hindered the effective evacuation and rescue efforts after Hurricane Katrina. I am pleased to say that this legislation authorizes $1.6 billion over 5 years for a grant program to improve emergency communication capabilities for first responders. This legislation also requires States to submit statewide inoperability plans. 
   Additionally, this legislation calls for the allocation of Homeland Security Grants based on risk. High-risk areas will receive the crucial resources they need to protect their population 
   and critical infrastructure. My home city of Houston, with its 5.3 million residents as well as the Port of Houston, a thriving petrochemical industry, the largest medical center in the world, and an extensive range of commercial assets, is just such an area. The allocation process put in place by this legislation ensures that those areas that face the highest risk of an attack receive adequate funding. 
   There are numerous other important provisions detailed in this Report. As Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection, I am extremely pleased with the provisions that will improve the security of our systems of transport. The 9/11 Commissioners gave a ``D'' grade to the Administration and Congress for their efforts on enhancing air cargo screening. To correct this deficiency, this legislation requires 100 percent screening of all air cargo carried on passenger planes. It also strengthens the explosives detection at passenger screening checkpoints. Additionally, this legislation requires the screening of 100 percent of U.S.-bound seaborne cargo containers loaded in foreign ports. 
   This legislation authorizes $4 billion over four years for rail, transit, and bus security grant programs, which will be administered under the Department of Homeland Security. In the Conference Committee, I stood by my conviction that DHS is in the best position to administer these grants, and I am pleased that the Department will be responsible for the distribution of these important transportation security grants. Specifically, this legislation provides training for rail and mass transit workers, and it requires security plans for high risk transit and rail companies. 
   This legislation enhances homeland security while protecting constitutionally enshrined civil liberties. It establishes the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight board as an independent agency, extends protection for whistle-blowers, and provides protection from lawsuits to individuals who report suspicious activities. We can protect our Nation without infringing upon the fundamental rights of Americans; we can provide security for our country without eliminating those freedoms that make the United States extraordinary. This legislation protects our rights as it protects our cities, borders, infrastructure, and population. 
   As I stand on the House floor today, 6 years since the horrific attacks of September 11, 2001, my heart still grieves for those who perished that day. No one could have predicted that attack; when the sun rose on the morning of September 11, none of us knew that it would end in an inferno in the magnificent World Trade Center Towers in New York City, the Pentagon in Washington, DC, and in the grassy fields of Shanksville, Pennsylvania. We can, however, work to identify and correct the shortcomings in our national security structures, and to take the necessary steps to prevent another such attack on our Nation and its people. 
   I stand here remembering those who still suffer, whose hearts still ache over the loss of so many innocent and interrupted lives. Mr. Speaker, we can best honor the memory of those who perished on 9/11 by working to ensure that such an attack never happens again. I strongly urge the adoption of this conference report.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me quickly say this amendment is supported by the National Farmers Union, and it is a sense of Congress that food items provided pursuant to the Federal School Breakfast Program and School Lunch Program should be selected so as to reduce the incidence of juvenile obesity and to maximize nutritional value. 
   Very quickly, African American and Hispanic families have the greatest risk for overweight and obesity, and youngsters from lower-income families have a higher risk for obesity than those from higher income. More than 40 percent of African American teenagers are overweight. Nearly 25 percent are obese. Hispanic children have the highest lifetime risk of diabetes, 52 percent for boys, 45 percent for girls, followed closely by African American children. 
   This would be a very crucial statement made by this body, a bipartisan statement, that we not only support America's farmers, but we support the nutritional eating of our children in programs that are federally funded. I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment because obesity is at epidemic proportion in America; and I look forward to working with this committee as we promote nutrition, not only in the United States, but around the world. 
   Mr. Chairman, I ask for support of this amendment.  
   Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2419, the Farm Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007, the Farm Bill. Let me first thank my distinguished colleague Chairman Peterson for his extraordinary leadership and guidance in crafting this bill. The Farm Bill will go a long way to feed the hungry, increase access to childcare for low-income parents, help the environment, increase opportunities for alternative energy and promote healthy food choices. H.R. 2419 will play a crucial role in continuing to provide a strong support system for many of this Nation's neediest families. H.R. 2419 reauthorizes nutrition programs, which account for two thirds of the bill's funding, to help low income families in need. This includes the extremely important Food Stamp Program that keeps many Americans from going hungry. In fact, the Farm Bill increases the minimum benefit under the Food Stamp Program for the first time in 30 years, and also adjusts the increase to inflation. I am particularly pleased to note that the bill eliminates the current cap on childcare costs to help the working poor meet rising costs. In addition, it nearly doubles the funding for the Emergency Food Assistant Program and expands the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Program to all 50 States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HIGHLIGHTING PASSAGE OF H.R. 1, IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. As usual, let me compliment the Speaker for her leadership and her service to America. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight the passage of the Homeland Security Commission report in H.R. 1, Improving America's Security Act. If I had to give an acronym, I would say R-E-L-I-E-F, it spells relief to the American people. 
   Now we know that we have a committed and unified war and effort against the war on terror. We have the resources and the mindset, the policy and the unity, six years after 9/11, 6 years after all of us stood awestruck, humbled, seemingly powerless, frightened, saddened and emerged with grief over the loss of so many. Families today still suffer. Children are without parents, husbands are without wives, wives are without husbands, and many, many extended family members. 
   So my first response is to salute the 9/11 families, for many times they probably were received in less than a jovial manner. But there is something about having that steadfast and courageous point of view that you never give up. You never give up. 
   Let me thank the chairman of the full committee and the ranking member for working to bring us all together, and the conference and the conferees, of which I was a part of, in understanding that our goal was to be Americans united. 
   So today I can salute the fact that this bill has passed. There is a greater distribution of Homeland Security Grants to States and high-risk urban areas, a risk-based analysis on how we distribute those funds. Each State is guaranteed a minimum of a certain amount, but it is based on risk. There is a $1.8 billion authorization for FY 2008 to assist States in high-risk urban areas in preparing for terrorist threats. Planning. More planning. More ways of looking ahead. 
   After we saw the strange video regarding the airport in Arizona where there was not around-the-clock Transportation Security Administration staff screening of people going into the airport, we know that we have to be forever planning and forward thinking. I am glad that solution is being addressed, and I am asking for an inventory as the subcommittee chair, of all airports in America, the top 400, to determine whether we are securing that airport 24 hours a day. 
   We can always work more smart and more effectively, but I am glad that we have a dedicated interoperability grant program to improve the communications that did not happen on 9/11; firefighters not being able to talk to other firefighters, or firefighters not being able to talk to police officers or Port Authority police. That money is in the bill. 
   $4 billion over 4 years for rail, transit and bus security grants. What a celebration. We worked very hard to ensure that we would have Transportation Security Grants on those properties, on those vehicles that move Americans across the United States. Every day Americans get up and use some form of public transportation, and we are delighted that we have focused on that. 
   Might I just say, with the tragedy of the steam explosion in New York, it exploded and a bus exploded. But it is important to note that if you were to have a tragedy on a bus or a train, look at the impact around the area.  
   I am very glad that the Houston port will now be a beneficiary of the many, many dollars that have been put in to provide more resources for our ports to have 100 percent screening of port cargo that comes into the United States. And it can be done. It won't stop the commerce that so many people are concerned about. 
   Then, of course, I think it is important to note that we are working with the intelligence community so that we have an exchange of intelligence, because that is the first line of defense, to know what is going on. 
   But I have one point, Madam Speaker, just to conclude on, and that is to be reminded that we need to consolidate the jurisdiction of the Homeland Security efforts. 
   The Department of Homeland Security participated in a total of 141 hearings all across the lot, all the different committees. DHS participated in a total of 42 hearings where multiple witnesses from DHS testified. DHS has provided a total of 195 witnesses. DHS has provided approximately 1,554 briefings. We need a single seam of jurisdiction for that particular department. 
   Then, it is important as we fight the war on terror, that we bring an end to the Iraq war; we begin to deal with political diplomacy; we begin to include the neighboring states around Iraq to take responsibility for safety in the region; we bring our troops home; we provide a safety net, if you will, for remaining Americans, but we include Kuwait, and Qatar and Jordan, all of these nations, Saudi Arabia, who are interested in some resolution to this conflict. 
   Almost 4,000 dead. Almost 4,000 of our brave men and women are dead. They are our heroes. We should declare a military success, bring our soldiers home and begin a diplomatic healing of that region. 
   Madam Speaker, let me just say, we have finally moved forward on the fight for real homeland security and the fight against the war on terror. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding. 
   Madam Speaker, I believe that each and every Member that has come to the floor tonight and over the last 2 days would never consider any of their remarks frivolous, nor would we characterize this debate as political. Unfortunately, in 2002, many of those same words were used to characterize a very needed debate and one that we had hoped that those who had the powers of decision would have listened to.  
   I remember standing in this same location and suggesting to my colleagues that I was proud to accept and to make as my choice life over death and peace over war. Through these years, members of the Progressive Caucus thoughtfully have gathered to reinforce the words that we offered during those days when even though the en masse lobbying and representation of mass destruction weapons, we knew that this was a war that would be ill-fated and misdirected. In fact, during that time, we had solutions. We asked for a continued use of political diplomacy and, as well, the continuation of utilizing the U.N. inspectors to determine if there were weapons of mass destruction.     
   But now we have come some 5 years and we hear the same refrain. And I know in the hearts of those who have spoken that they are sincere. But if we said nothing else but point to those who have fallen, let their faces represent the sacrifice of America. Those are the faces of those who are always willing to go into battle, and not one of us on the floor today will ever say anything untoward about the United States military through the years and decades and centuries, because they have never faltered in the Commander in Chief's direction to go to war. 
   But what has really failed in this Congress in its oversight and responsibility and, as well, the choices being made by the leadership that has sent them into war. 
   And so, as Abraham Lincoln has said, ``We wish to honor the soldiers and sailors everywhere who bravely bear this country's cause; honor also to the citizen who cares for his brother. We will never forget.'' 
   But we now stand in opposition to the escalation and support of this resolution because we believe that the Nation must hear, but also the leaders who make the decisions must hear this is wrong and misdirected. 
   The troops have been magnificent. We have had 180,000 of them who have served in Iraq from Texas, we have had 200 or more who have been killed, including the 3,000-plus that have been killed across the Nation. They do have a military success. 
   But we know that the surges do not work. We know it was ill-fated from the beginning. There was no collaboration, very minimal, and now the collaboration has ended. What is needed now is the declaration of a military success, which is what I have expressed in H.R. 930. And now we must search for diplomatic and political reconciliation, a Special Envoy to Iraq that focuses specifically on bringing together the Sunnis, the Shiites and the Kurds. We know that surges have only generated more insurgents, they have only generated more violence, and it has not brought about the safety that is needed. 
   Of course, the response is that this escalation will bring some sort of security to Baghdad, and then we can sit down and have reconciliation. One more soldier generates one more violent act. So we know that the troop surges do not work. We also know that it strains the readiness. 
   We need a diplomatic surge. More importantly, we need not to go over the steps of Secretary McNamara who indicated in his words, as I said in the October 2002, Former Defense Secretary Robert McNamara said in his mea culpa on the Vietnam War: We were wrong, terribly wrong. And he hoped that the suffering, as he quoted one of the philosophers, he hoped that what we had experienced in the suffering of Vietnam would give us experience. Today this ongoing war in Iraq shows we have thrown away that experience. 
   We also throw away the Constitution, because this is not pursuant to Article I, section 8. This is not a declaration of war that we are in, and we therefore need to terminate the power of the President that had been given in 2002 to attack Iraq. This document has not been followed. And so H.R. 930 will terminate the authorization given in 2002, because for these lives lost already we don't want to participate in the foolishness of monies being spent recklessly, the lack of accountability, and a war that already can be claimed as a military victory by the United States military who can now come home with honor and dignity. 
   Let us stand again on this floor and claim that we support life over death and we support peace over war and we want our soldiers to return home in celebration and dignity in honor of these who now are fallen on the battlefield.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 63. I stand in strong support of our troops who have performed magnificently in battle and with a grace under pressure that is distinctively American. I stand with the American people, who have placed their trust in the President, the Vice President, and the former Secretary of Defense, each of whom abused the public trust and patience. 
   I stand with the American taxpayers who have paid nearly $400 billion to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,019 fallen heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full measure of devotion to their country. For these reasons, Madam Speaker, I stand fully, strongly, and unabashedly in opposition to the President's unilateral decision to escalate the war in Iraq by deploying more than 20,000 additional combat troops to Iraq, and at least that many more to provide logistical support. 
   I wish to make clear, Madam Speaker, that sending more combat troops into Iraq will not lead to success in Iraq. We cannot achieve success in Iraq unless we change strategy. But the President's proposed troop surge is not a change in strategy and it does not signal a new direction; it is simply more of the same. As our most recent great President, Bill Clinton, once said, ``if you always do what you've always done, you'll always get what you've always got.'' 
   In proposing this latest troop surge, President Bush seeks to ``cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war.'' But even Henry V did not exhort his troops, his band of brothers, to go ``once more, into the breach'' for a fifth time. And neither should we. 
   Madam Speaker, instead of a surge in combat troops, the United States needs to launch a diplomatic surge for political and national reconciliation in Iraq. That is why I have introduced H.R. 930, the ``Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for Political and National Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007.'' As I will discuss in greater detail later in my remarks, my legislation offers a far better chance of sustainable success in Iraq than does the President's escalation. And equally important, my legislation will go a long way toward ensuring that never again will the American people or the Congress be bamboozled into rubber-stamping an ill-advised, ill-planned, preemptive war. 
   Madam Speaker, I am privileged to represent the citizens of the 18 Congressional District in the great State of Texas. The sons and daughters of the Lone Star State have always answered the call to service. More than 280 Texans have been made the ultimate sacrifice for their country. More than 2,200 Texans have been wounded. Only California has suffered a greater number of dead and wounded. Today, Madam Speaker, there are more than 31,000 
   Texans serving in Iraq, which is 12,000 more than the next highest state. Since the war began in March 2003, more than 180,000 Texans have served in Iraq, some deployed two, even three, in some cases four times. 
   Madam Speaker, it is more than irresponsible not to oppose the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. It is unconscionable. In opposing the President's latest folly, we send a message that is both simple and profound: You cannot win the just War on Terror by launching an unjustified War in Iraq. That is one of the hard and bitter lessons we have learned during the 4 years course of the War in Iraq. 
   The misguided, mismanaged, and costly debacle that is the Iraq War was preemptively launched by President Bush in March 2003 despite the opposition of me and 125 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives. To date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of human history. 
   But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently trained and equipped to do the job. 
   My friends, I say with sadness that we have not enjoyed that same quality of leadership throughout the conduct of the Iraq War. The results, not surprisingly, have been disastrous. To date, the war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,109 brave servicemen and women (115 in December and 39 in the first 13 days of this month). More than 23,400 Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain this misadventure. 
   The depth, breadth, and scope of the President's misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war in Iraq is utterly without precedent  in American history. It is a tragedy in a league all its own. But it was not unforeseeable or unavoidable. As the President's intention to launch a preemptive war against Iraq became known back in the fall of 2002, thoughtful members in the halls of Congress took to the floor, and concerned citizens in the countryside took to the streets to stop it. Patriots all, we registered our dissent. We acted not out of dislike of the President but out of love for our country and what it had represented to the world. As Robert Taft, ``Mr. Republican,'' as he was affectionately known, the late, great Senator from Ohio, stated two weeks after Pearl Harbor, ``Criticism in a time of war is essential to the maintenance of a democratic government.'' 
   My friends, in light of the enormous losses of precious American blood and treasure, it is very small consolation to know that those of us who acted on the biblical injunction to speak truth to power have been proven right in our warnings about the disaster war in Iraq would produce. 
   We predicted before the war that ``the outcome after the conflict is actually going to be the hardest part, and it is far less certain.'' We made the point that it was essential for the Administration to develop ``a plan for rebuilding of the Iraqi government and society, if the worst comes to pass and armed conflict is necessary.'' We knew the Armed Forces of the United States is invincible on the battlefield and would decisively defeat Iraq's forces and remove Saddam Hussein. But like the proverbial dog chasing the car down the road, we questioned whether the President knew what to do after we caught it.'' 
   We warned of the ``postwar challenges,'' particularly the fact that there was no history of democratic government in Iraq, and that its economy and infrastructure was in ruins after years of war and sanctions and that rebuilding Iraq would cost hundreds of billions of dollars that could be better at home securing the homeland and waging the real War on Terror. And we warned against sending American soldiers to war in Iraq without adequate protection against biological and unconventional weapons. 
   I am also reminded how General Eric Shinseki told the Senate Armed Services Committee in February 2003 that the Defense Department's estimate of troops needed for occupying Iraq is too low and that several hundred thousand soldiers would be needed. But instead of heeding the wise counsel of General Shinseki, the Bush administration cashiered him out of the Army. 
   Indeed, anyone who questioned the Bush Doctrine of preemptive war was ridiculed and marginalized as unpatriotic, weak, sympathetic to terrorists, and un-American: Anti-Terrorism Chief Richard Clarke, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, Council of Economic Advisors Chairman Laurence Lindsay, Joe Wilson, and congressional Democrats. 
   But four years later, people like us are now the majority. And we are united in raising our voices to proclaim: End the war and redeploy our troops out of Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, it is instructive to review why the American people have turned against the war in Iraq. 
   The American people were told erroneously but repeatedly that the gravest threat facing America was Saddam Hussein and his regime. The Vice-President assured all who listened that he knew that Iraq and Al Qaeda had high-level contacts that went back a decade and that Iraq had trained Al Qaeda members in bomb making and deadly gases. He was wrong. What's more, the American people were led to believe that the regime in Baghdad had long-standing and continuing ties to terrorist organizations. Wrong again. President Bush even went so far as to say that you couldn't distinguish between Al Qaeda and Saddam when you talked about the war on terror. Of course, this claim turned out to be untrue as well. 
   That is not all, Madam Speaker. The campaign to persuade Americans that Iraq posed a clear, present, and mortal danger to us included the false claims that Iraq possessed ballistic missiles with a likely range of hundreds of miles--far enough to strike Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey, and other nations. It was also falsely represented to Americans that Iraq had a growing fleet of manned and unmanned aerial vehicles that could be used to disperse chemical or biological weapons across broad areas and that Iraq was exploring ways of using unmanned aerial vehicles to target the United States. 
   But the capstone of the administration's disinformation campaign was the claim that Saddam Hussein was actively pursuing nuclear weapons which could be used against America by Iraq, or by the terrorists to whom it was giving safe harbor. President Bush even went so far to announce to a world-wide audience in his 2003 State of the Union address that ``the British government has learned that Saddam Hussein had recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.'' According to the President, facing such clear evidence of peril, we could not wait for ``the final proof that could come in the form of a mushroom cloud.'' We now know for sure that these claims were false. And covering up those false claims is one of the main reasons that Scooter Libby found himself in the predicament that led to his indictment by a grand jury and the on-going trial in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. 
   Regarding the actual conduct of the looming hostilities, the Administration and its courtiers assured us that ``it would be a cakewalk'' and that American troops ``would be greeted as liberators.'' The Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, boldly claimed that ``the war could last six days, six weeks. I doubt six months.'' Vice-President CHENEY said, ``I think it will go relatively quickly ..... [in] weeks rather than months.'' There are many things one could say about these rose- colored scenarios peddled by the Administration nearly four long years ago. But there is one thing you cannot say and that is ``truer words were never spoken.'' 
   Finally, Madam Speaker, let us not forget the wildly extravagant claims of this Administration regarding the cost of this war. The Director of the White House OMB was quoted as saying that ``Iraq will be an affordable endeavor that will not require sustained aid and will be in the range of $50 billion to $60 billion.'' At last count, Madam Speaker, the war has cost the taxpayers $379 billion. That a cost overrun of more than 600 percent. 
   To put the cost of the war in perspective, consider that we are spending more than $8 billion a month to sustain the war effort in Iraq. Could this money be put to better use? Well, consider the following: 
   For $33.1 billion, or 4 months in Iraq, we could have fully funded the Department of Homeland Security FY 2007 budget. 
   For $10 billion, just 5 weeks in Iraq, we could equip every commercial airliner with defenses against shoulder-fired missiles. 
   For $8.6 billion, just 30 days in Iraq, we could finance the shortage of international aid needed to rebuild Afghanistan. 
   For $5.2 billion, just three weeks in Iraq, we could finance the capital improvements needed to secure the nation's public transportation system, including trains, subways, and buses. 
   For the equivalent of 5 days in Iraq, just $1.5 billion, we could provide radiation detectors at every port in the United States. 
   For only $1.4 billion, the cost of another 5 days in Iraq, we could double the COPS (community police grants) program. 
   For the cost of a mere two days in Iraq, we could fund the $700 million needed to provide 100% screening of all air cargo. 
   For $350 million, 26 hours in Iraq, we could instead make emergency radio systems interoperable. 
   For the cost of 8 1/2 hours in Iraq, $94 million, we could restore the cuts in Homeland Security funding to cities hit on September 11. 
   Madam Speaker, opponents of the resolution before us contend that it gives comfort to the enemy and undermines the President's strategy for success in Iraq. They claim it is our patriotic duty to avert our eyes to this Administration's nearly unbroken record of spectacular failure and incompetence and rally around the flag. But to paraphrase the old saw: fool me four times, shame on you; fool me a fifth time, shame on me. The truth is, Madam Speaker, this Congress--and the American people--has not been fickle or impatient. Rather, it has been understanding and generous to a fault, overlooking and excusing blunder after blunder committed by the White House and the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). As Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, and a former senior member of the NSC, brilliantly describes in his essay, ``The Seven Deadly Sins Of Failure In Iraq: A Retrospective Analysis Of The Reconstruction,'' in Middle East Review of International Affairs (December 2006), our trust and patience has been repaid by a record of incompetence unmatched in the annals of American foreign policy. 
   The Bush administration disregarded the advice of experts on Iraq, on nation-building, and on military operations. It staged both the invasion and the reconstruction on the cheap. It did not learn from its mistakes and did not commit the resources necessary to accomplish its original lofty goals or later pedestrian objectives. It ignored intelligence that contradicted its own views. 
   It is clear now that the administration simply never believed in the necessity of a major reconstruction in Iraq. To exacerbate matters the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the White House Office of the Vice President (OVP) worked together to ensure that the State Department was excluded from any meaningful involvement in the reconstruction of Iraq. 
   The administration's chief Iraq hawks shared a deeply naive view that the fall of Saddam and his top henchmen would have relatively little impact on the overall Iraqi governmental structure. They assumed that Iraq's bureaucracy would remain intact and would  therefore be capable of running the country and providing Iraqis with basic services. They likewise assumed that the Iraqi armed forces would largely remain cohesive and would surrender whole to U.S. forces. The result of all this was a fundamental lack of attention to realistic planning for the postwar environment. 
   As it was assumed that the Iraqis would be delighted to be liberated little thought was given to security requirements after Saddam's fall. The dearth of planning for the provision of security and basic services stemmed from the mistaken belief that Iraqi political institutions would remain largely intact and therefore able to handle those responsibilities. 
   But there were too few Coalition troops, which meant that long supply lines were vulnerable to attack by Iraqi irregulars, and the need to mask entire cities at times took so much combat power that it brought the entire offensive to a halt. 
   It was not long before these naive assumptions and inadequate planning conjoined to sow the seeds of the chaos we have witnessed in Iraq. 
   The lack of sufficient troops to secure the country led to the immediate outbreak of lawlessness resulting in massive looting and destruction dealt a stunning psychological blow to Iraqi confidence in the United States, from which the country has yet to recover. We removed Saddam Hussein's regime but we did not move to fill the military, political, and economic vacuum. The unintended consequence was the birth of a failing state, which provided the opportunity for the insurgency to flourish and prevented the development of governmental institutions capable of providing Iraqis with the most basic services such as clean water, sanitation, electricity, and a minimally functioning economy capable of generating basic employment. 
   Making matters worse, the administration arrogantly denied the United Nations overall authority for the reconstruction even though the U.N. had far more expertise and experience in nation building. 
   The looting and anarchy, the persistent insurgent attacks, the lack of real progress in restoring basic services, and the failure to find the promised weapons of mass destruction undercut the administration's claim that things were going well in Iraq and led it to make the next set of serious blunders, which was the disbanding of the Iraqi military and security services. 
   Madam Speaker, counterinsurgency experts will tell you that to pacify an occupied country it is essential to disarm, demobilize, and retrain (DDR) the local army. The idea behind a DDR program is to entice, cajole, or even coerce soldiers back to their own barracks or to other facilities where they can be fed, clothed, watched, retrained, and prevented from joining an insurgency movement, organized crime, or an outlaw militia. 
   By disbanding the military and security services without a DDR program, as many as one million Iraqi men were set at large with no money, no means to support their families, and no skills other than how to use a gun. Not surprisingly, many of these humiliated Sunni officers went home and joined the burgeoning Sunni insurgency. 
   The next major mistake made in the summer of 2003 was the decision to create an Iraqi Governing Council (IGC), which laid the foundation for many of Iraq's current political woes. Many of the IGC leaders were horribly corrupt, and they stole from the public treasury and encouraged their subordinates to do the same. The IGC set the tone for later Iraqi governments, particularly the transitional governments of Ayad Allawi and Ibrahim Jaafari that followed. 
   Finally, by insisting that all of the problems of the country were caused by the insurgency rather than recognizing the problems of the country were helping to fuel the insurgency, the Bush Administration set about concentrating its efforts in all the wrong places and on the wrong problems. 
   This explains why for nearly all of 2004 and 2005, our troops were disproportionately deployed in the Sunni triangle trying to catch and kill insurgents. Although our troops caught and killed insurgents by the hundreds and thousands, these missions were not significantly advancing our strategic objectives. Indeed, they had little long-term impact because insurgents are always willing to flee temporarily rather than fight a leviathan. Second, because so many coalition forces were playing ``whack-a-mole'' with insurgents in the sparsely populated areas of western Iraq, the rest of the country was left vulnerable to take over by militias. 
   Finally, Madam Speaker, a cruel irony is that because the Iraqi Government brought exiles and militia leaders into the government and gave them positions of power, it is now virtually impossible to get them out, and even more difficult to convince them to make compromises because the militia leaders have learned they can use their government positions to maintain and expand their personal power, at the expense both of their rivals who are not in the government and of the central government itself. 
   All of this was avoidable and the blame for the lack of foresight falls squarely on the White House and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
   Madam Speaker, the American people spoke loudly and clearly last November when they tossed out the Rubber-Stamp Republican Congress. They voted for a New Direction in Iraq and for change in America. They voted to disentangle American troops from the carnage, chaos, and civil war in Iraq. They voted for accountability and oversight, which we Democrats have begun to deliver on; already the new majority has held 52 congressional hearings related to the Iraq War, investigating everything from the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse of Iraq reconstruction funding to troop readiness to the Iraq Study Group Report. 
   But President Bush is still not listening to America. He is acting as if nothing has changed. He is not offering a way out of Iraq, only a way forward that will take us deeper into the morass and quagmire. 
   The troop surge proposed by President Bush is not a new strategy for success in Iraq; it is just the same old repackaged policy of ``stay the course.'' This troop surge--this escalation of the war--will not provide lasting security for Iraqis. It is not what the American people have asked for, nor what the American military needs. It will impose excessive and unwarranted burdens on military personnel and their families. It is opposed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is opposed by an overwhelming majority of the American people. It is opposed by a majority in Congress. 
   The architects of the fiasco in Iraq would have us believe that ``surging'' at least 20,000 more soldiers into Baghdad and nearby Anbar province is a change in military strategy that America must embrace or face future terrorist attacks on American soil. Nothing could be further from the truth, as we learned last year when the ``surge'' idea first surfaced among neoconservatives. 
   The President's proposed troop surge is not new and, judging from history, we know it will not work. It will only succeed in putting more American troops in harm's way for no good reason and without any strategic advantage. The armed forces of the United States are not to be used to respond to 911 calls from governments like Iraq's that have done all they can to take responsibility for the security of their country and safety of their own people. The United States cannot do for Iraq what Iraqis are not willing to do for themselves. 
   Troop surges have been tried several times in the past. The success of these surges has, to put it charitably, been underwhelming. Let's briefly review the record: 
   1. Operation Together Forward, (June-October 2006): In June the Bush administration announced a new plan for securing Baghdad by increasing the presence of Iraqi Security Forces. That plan failed, so in July the White House announced that additional American troops would be sent into Baghdad. By October, a U.S. military spokesman, Gen. William Caldwell, acknowledged that the operation and troop increase was a failure and had ``not met our overall expectations of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence.'' 
   2. Elections and Constitutional Referendum (September-December 2005): In the fall of 2005 the Bush administration increased troop levels by 22,000, making a total of 160,000 American troops in Iraq around the constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the elections went off without major violence these escalations had little long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American troops. 
   3. Constitutional Elections and Fallujah (November 2004-March 2005): As part of an effort to improve counterinsurgency operations after the Fallujah offensive in November 2004 and to increase security before the January 2005 constitutional elections U.S. forces were increased by 12,000 to 150,000. Again there was no long-term security impact. 
   4. Massive Troop Rotations (December 2003-April 2004): As part of a massive rotation of 250,000 troops in the winter and spring of 2004, troop levels in Iraq were raised from 122,000 to 137,000. Yet, the increase did nothing to prevent Muqtada al-Sadr's Najaf uprising and April of 2004 was the second deadliest month for American forces. 
   Madam Speaker, by more than 60 percent, Americans oppose increasing American troop levels in Iraq. So do many of the nation's leading and most knowledgeable military officers. In testimony before the Senate, Gen. John P. Abizaid, the former Commander of United States Central Command, stated: ``I do not believe that more American troops right now is the solution to the problem. I believe that the troop levels need to stay where they are.'' General Abizaid's view is shared by Gen. Colin Powell, the former Secretary of State and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, who has said ``I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad for the purposes of suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war, will work.'' And Gen. Barry  McCaffrey (retired), who commanded the 24th Infantry Division during the first Gulf War, is even more blunt: ``It's a 
   fool's errand ..... Our allies are leaving us ..... Make no mistake about that. Most will be gone by this summer.'' 
   Even leading members of the Republican Party are skeptical of the President's latest ploy to salvage the mess he has made of Iraq. According to Sen. CHUCK HAGEL of Nebraska, the President's escalation plan ``represents the most dangerous foreign policy blunder in this country since Vietnam--if it's carried out. I will resist it.'' Senator HAGEL is joined in his skepticism by Senators OLYMPIA SNOWE, JOHN WARNER, SUSAN COLLINS, GORDON SMITH, NORM COLEMAN, GEORGE VOINOVICH, SAM BROWNBACK, ARLEN SPECTER, and a growing list of others. 
   Madam Speaker, although Americans are right to oppose the President's troop surge, stemming the chaos in Iraq will require more than opposition to military escalation. It requires us to make hard choices. 
   It is past time for a new direction that can lead to success in Iraq. We cannot wait any longer. Too many Americans and Iraqis are dying who could otherwise be saved. 
   Since the President still has not seen the light, we need to make him feel the heat. I believe the time has come to debate, adopt, and implement a plan for strategic redeployment. I am not talking about ``immediate withdrawal,'' ``cutting and running,'' or surrendering to terrorists. And I certainly am not talking about staying in Iraq forever or the foreseeable future. 
   I am talking about a paradigm shift. Rather than undertaking a misguided and futile surge in troops, the United States should surge diplomatically. The Armed Forces of the United States have performed magnificently. They won the war they were sent to fight. Their civilian leadership has not succeeded in winning the peace. 
   That is why I have introduced H.R. 930, which among other things creates a high-level Special Envoy to launch a new offensive on the diplomatic front. My legislation, the ``Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for Political and National Reconciliation Act of 2007,'' implements twelve of the most important recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, headed by former Secretary of State James A. Baker and 911 Co-Chairman Lee Hamilton. 
   Among other things, H.R. 930, would require a diplomatic full-court press designed to engage all six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait--more constructively in stabilizing Iraq. These countries are already involved in a bilateral, self-interested and disorganized way. 
   While their interests and ours are not identical, none of these countries wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees streaming into their countries. 
   Madam Speaker, when Congress authorized the president to use military force in Iraq in 2002, it departed from the wisdom of our forefathers. The Framers understood that while the military does the fighting, a nation goes to war. That is why they lodged the power to declare war in the Congress, the branch of government closest to the people. They knew that the decision to go to war was too important to be left to the whim of a single person, no matter how wise or well-informed he or she might be. But the AUMF passed by Congress was not a declaration of war but rather a blank check for the president to start and wage war in Iraq at a time, place, and manner of his choosing. It is time to rescind that blank check and return to first principles. 
   That is why H.R. 930 also includes another important legislative initiative, the ``Military Success in Iraq Act of 2007 (MSIA).'' This provision of my legislation is crafted to end the American military involvement in Iraq and redeploy American troops out of Iraq. 
   The MSIA declares that the objectives which led Congress to pass the 2002 AUMF have been achieved. It further declares that whenever the objectives set forth in an AUMF have been achieved, the AUMF expires automatically. Then it finds that Congress is the ultimate arbiter as to whether the objectives set forth in its AUMF have been achieved. 
   Because Congress now finds that the 2002 AUMF objectives have been achieved, my legislation provides that the authorization to use force conferred upon the President by the AUMF has now expired. My bill then makes clear that the President must obtain a new authorization to continue the use force in Iraq. Finally, my bill requires that if the Congress does not vote to reauthorize the use of force in Iraq by March 31, 2007, then all American armed forces in Iraq must be redeployed out of Iraq. Thus, under my legislation, an up-or-down vote must be held by the House and Senate to continue waging war in Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, our domestic national security, in fact, rests on redeploying our military forces from Iraq in order to build a more secure Middle East and continue to fight against global terrorist networks elsewhere in the world. Strategic redeployment of our armed forces in order to rebuild our nation's fighting capabilities and renew our critical fight in Afghanistan against the Taliban and al-Qaeda is not just an alternative strategy. It's a strategic imperative. 
   My legislation requires the Congress to provide leadership on the most important issue of our day. That is what the American people want. That is what they voted for last November. That is what has been required all along. 
   And providing constructive leadership that will bring peace, enhance security, and save lives is the task to which I am now, and always have been, dedicated. That is why I strongly and proudly support our magnificent, heroic, and selfless service men and women. That is why I strongly support H. Con. Res 63 and squarely oppose the President's decision to escalate the war in Iraq. I urge all members to support the resolution before the House.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS A MORAL RESPONSIBILITY TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THOSE PERSONS, GROUPS AND COMMUNITIES THAT ARE IMPOVERISHED, DISADVANTAGED OR OTHERWISE IN POVERTY -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 198, expressing the sense of Con-  gress that the United States has a moral responsibility to meet the needs of those persons, groups and communities that are impoverished, disadvantaged or otherwise in poverty, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, Representative Barbara Lee. Congresswoman Barbara Lee, co-founder of the Out of Poverty Caucus, has articulated a national goal to reduce poverty by 50 percent over the next 10 years. This legislation is an imperative instrument in addressing the ongoing endemic that is poverty in America. 
   Approximately 36.5 million American citizens, 12.3 percent of United States population, live in poverty. The incidence of destitution is associated with race and ethnicity, location, family composition, age, and education. America has allowed poverty to fall off the national agenda. In a nation as industrial and prominent as the United States, it seems paradoxical to have such high levels of poverty. During the 1960s, when President Johnson made poverty a national concern, policies and programs were created to set into motion a series of bills and acts which ``brought about real results, reduced rates of poverty, and improved living standards for America's poor.'' 
   Madam Speaker, it is essential that this Congress satisfies the needs of Americans who are impoverished, disadvantaged, or otherwise in poverty; this legislation requires that we acknowledge that responsibility. While poverty is believed by some to be a statistical phenomenon, it is in fact a daily reality for millions of Americans. Policy proposals addressing poverty have not kept pace with the needs of millions of Americans. The measure of poverty is simple but rather crude. Poverty cannot be accurately evaluated until we can essentially comprehend the number of people in poverty. 
   When Mollie Orshansky, renowned economist and statistician, defined the poverty line in the 1960s, she used a farm family living in the 1950s as her model, nevertheless times have changed. In this day and age, an income of $20,000 is not sufficient for a family of four to survive. Journalist Barbara Ehreinreht worked alongside the ``near poor'' in her nonfiction piece ``Nickel and Dimed.'' Ten years ago, a family in her book earned $40,000 a year cumulatively, but was still unable to afford 
   suitable housing. An annual income of $20,000 in 1950 and $40,000 in 1998 for a family of four is ``unpretentious.'' Technology has advanced, times have changed, the price of living is constantly rising, and those factors, along with many others should be used to evaluate how a family can survive. 
   Many impoverished individuals are believed to be able to return to self-sufficiency with 12-18 months of assistance and affordable housing. Since its conception, welfare has caused countless economic, political, psychological, and sociological effects that have shaped American society, produced innumerable reforms and depicted its recipients as irresponsible agents of self- inflicted poverty. In 1996, the Republican-led Congress introduced welfare reform. If the objective was to reduce the number of people on the welfare rolls, it worked; however, poverty did not decline. The central goal that needs to be established is how to decrease poverty while simultaneously placing welfare recipients in a position to maintain an existence above the poverty line after assistance. Welfare is not a substantial economic alternative; in no state do welfare disbursements alone lift a family above the poverty line. The Federal Government must play a vital role in revitalizing and restoring opportunities for Americans to reach the American dream. 
   Congress is morally obligated to provide better services to meet the needs of its citizens; nevertheless, the quality of the services for various groups differs greatly. The aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita demonstrated that sub-par services are readily available to minorities. While many existing organizations have worked to help those displaced, and some new groups and special efforts have been initiated, the survivors of Hurricane Katrina are still largely disorganized and deprived. In the United States, the incidence of poverty is associated with race and ethnicity, location, family composition, age, and education. Three years ago, the criticisms of the Government's response to Hurricane Katrina generally consisted of condemnations of negligence and lack of leadership in the relief efforts in response to the storm and its aftermath. Currently, the principal criticism is the long overdue assistance for the poverty-stricken. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (COMMISSION ON THE ABOLITION OF THE TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE ACT -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3432, the 200th Anniversary Commemoration Commission of the Abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade of 2007, which I am proud, along with over 95 of my colleagues, to cosponsor. This legislation recognizes the 200th anniversary of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, and it establishes the rubric from which the Commission, to be known as the ``Transatlantic Slave Trade 200th Anniversary Commission,'' shall be formed. 
   I would like to thank my distinguished colleague, Congressman PAYNE, for introducing this important legislation, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman LANTOS, for his leadership on this issue. 
   Madam Speaker, though 200 years have passed since the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade, the legacy of slavery continues to have a profound impact on American society. The legacy of social and economic disparity lives on, as do hatred, bias, and discrimination. Despite two centuries of progress, the African American community continues to feel the impact of the transatlantic slave trade, and subsequent years of racism and persecution. 
   While our Nation has pursued the ideals of liberty and equality for all, there still remain steps that must be taken in order to ensure that even such a dark piece of our Nation's history be preserved and its conclusion at the hand of President Thomas Jefferson be celebrated. 
   Madam Speaker, the bill before us establishes a commission to cultivate and preserve the memory of a grave injustice in American history: we must recognize and in some small way try to rectify our past. In the early years of the Republic, the transatlantic slave trade constituted a thriving economic vein of the United States. By 1807, millions of Africans had been captured and transported to the Americas, many perishing as the result of torture, rape, malnutrition, and disease. It was not until March of 1807 that President Thomas Jefferson signed into law ``An Act to prohibit the importation of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States,'' a Congressionally approved bill intended to end the heinous practice of the transatlantic slave trade. 
   It is in commemoration of President Jefferson's revolutionary act, and to explore further the impacts of the slave trade on our Nation that H.R. 3432 establishes the 200th Anniversary Commemoration Commission. This important commission will be composed of 11 congressionally appointed members charged with the task of planning, developing, and executing programs and activities appropriate to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade. Though the Senate amendments to this bill strike the appropriation of funds for this important legislation, I still feel that this is an imperative first step in the right direction. While I am disappointed that the Senate did not see fit to allocate the necessary funds to see the formation of this unprecedented commission to fruition, I remain supportive of the significant mission of this legislation and hope to see it through to its completion. 
   January 1, 2008, marked the 200th anniversary of the ``Act to Prohibit the Importation of Slaves.'' The United States today serves as a moral compass for the rest of the world and as such we must provide a voice for human trafficking issues. Our willingness to confront our Nation's past and to address the impacts of the slave trade and its legacy on the United States strengthens our undeterred commitment to serving as an advocate for human rights and freedom in the international community. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ECONOMIC STIMULUS NEEDS TO INCLUDE A MORATORIUM ON HOME FORECLOSURES -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I was here on the floor last week reminding my colleagues as my intention is to continue to emphasize those who have been hurt by the economic recession, the downtrend in our financial markets, that they are, in fact, real people. So, in the course of visiting my district and around the country, we have met individuals who are suffering. 
   Today, I met an Iraqi veteran whose parents have built their home brick by brick, and now they find that their homestead, these senior citizens, their son in Iraq, is having their house foreclosed on. 
   I met an elderly woman, a widow, whose husband was deceased 7 years ago. She's trying to pay the costliness of the heating oil and now is being called by her bank that her home, because of her delinquent payments, will be foreclosed on. 
   It is imperative I believe that an economic stimulus package include a moratorium on foreclosures in order to ensure that those individuals can reconstruct their loans. Mr. Speaker, it is imperative it is a stimulus to help people keep their homes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 866, introduced by my distinguished colleague from North Carolina, Representative Coble, honoring the brave men and women of the United States Coast Guard whose tireless work, dedication, and commitment to protecting the United States have led to the Coast Guard seizing over 350,000 pounds of cocaine at sea during 2007, far surpassing all of our previous records. This bipartisan legislation honors the Coast Guard's important 217-year legacy of protecting American borders and enforcing the laws of the sea. 
   The maritime safety laws of this country were written in understanding and appreciation of the peril which mariners face when they get on a ship, go out to sea, whether on the saltwater or the fourth coastline of this country, the Great Lakes. 
   Americans put their trust every day in the Coast Guard to regulate safety on ferry boats and other types of vessels conveying passengers, or on liquefied natural gas tankers that come into our ports. We have to ensure that the Coast Guard will get their full funding needed to carry out those responsibilities. 
   The United States Coast Guard is the smallest of the seven uniformed services of the United States. Their mission is to protect the public, environment, and the economic and security interest of the United States' coasts, ports, and inland waterways. During the Coast Guard's 217-year legacy of border protection and maritime law enforcement, modern technologies have made their job more perilous. This, however, has not deterred our Nation's brave young men and women from conducting the dangerous duty of drug interdiction. 
   In 2007, the Coast Guard seized more than 350,000 pounds of cocaine at sea. The street value of this seizure is worth over an estimated $4.7 billion. The sum is nearly one-half of the Coast Guard's annual budget. 
   The Coast Guard's at-sea drug seizures have reduced the supply of cocaine in more than 35 major cities across the United States, consequently making a positive difference in our American communities. This important legislation recognizes the overwhelming contributions of the Coast Guard to the American community. It furthermore applauds the Coast Guard for their commitment to participating as part of a robust interagency team and international partners that has contributed to the seizure over 2 million pounds of cocaine in the past 10 years. 
    I commend the men and women of the Coast Guard, who spend countless hours at sea away from their families while they unremittingly work to execute their service's mission. I acknowledge the commitment and selfless service required to protect our Nation and the American people done by Coast Guard men and women without want of public recognition. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, and, in so doing, giving our men and women in uniform the respect and recognition they deserve.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING ATTACKS ON AFRICAN UNION PEACEKEEPERS IN HASKANITA, DARFUR, SUDAN, ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me supporting H.  Res. 740, which I introduced, together with my good friend and distinguished colleague, Mr. Chabot. This bipartisan legislation condemns, in the strongest terms, the attacks on African Union peacekeepers that occurred in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 29, 2007 
   I would like to thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Full Committee, Mr. Lantos and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and of the subcommittee on Africa and Global Health, Mr. Payne and Mr. Smith, for their support and co-sponsorship of this important bill. Let me also thank my 55 colleagues who co-sponsored this legislation. 
   Since 2003, we have witnessed a systematic campaign of displacement, starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror in the western Sudanese region of Darfur. In the worst humanitarian crisis of our time, an estimated 400,000 people have been killed in Darfur by the Government of Sudan and its Janjaweed allies. An additional 2,000,000 people have been displaced from their homes and livelihoods. Both the House of Representatives and the Senate declared that the atrocities in Darfur constitute genocide in July 2004, and the Bush administration reached the same conclusion in September 2004. 
   However, three years later, the situation in Darfur continues to deteriorate. The United Nations reported a substantial decline in the humanitarian situation during the first three months of 2007, during which time 21 humanitarian vehicles were hijacked, 15 additional vehicles were looted, and gunmen raided 6 humanitarian compounds. The security situation makes it extremely difficult for aid organizations to reach vulnerable populations, and, in the 12 months preceding April 2007, the number of humanitarian relief workers in Darfur decreased by 16 percent, largely due to security concerns, restrictions on access, and funding limitations. The flow of humanitarian aid has been severely threatened by the escalating violence in the region. 
   Since 2004, a small contingent of African Union peacekeepers have been deployed to Darfur, responsible for maintaining security in a region roughly the size of France. The 7,000 peacekeepers under the banner of the African Union Mission in Sudan, or AMIS, have displayed exemplary courage and resilience, but they are woefully outmanned and outgunned, as well as chronically short of funding. Recognizing the near-collapse of the AU Mission, the United Nations, in July 2007, 
   approved a UN-AU hybrid peacekeeping mission, to be known as UNAMID, which is meant to take over from AMIS shortly. 
   The AMIS peacekeeping mission recently encountered yet another significant setback. On September 29, 2007, an estimated 1,000 members of a heavily armed Darfur rebel group, in 30 vehicles armed with heavy artillery and mortars, overran a small base in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, which was occupied by AMIS peacekeepers. The ambush resulted in several hours of intense fighting that killed ten peacekeepers--seven Nigerian peacekeepers and three other soldiers from Mali, Senegal, and Botswana--and wounded many others. 
   According to U.N. estimates, in the aftermath of this brutal attack, which was described by the African Union commander as ``deliberate and sustained,'' 15,000 civilians fled the area to neighboring towns or the wilderness, fearing for their safety. This attack is considered to be the worst on AMIS peacekeepers since their deployment in July 2004. The United Nations Security Council condemned this ``murderous attack'' on AMIS peacekeepers, and demanded that ``no effort be spared'' to identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of this assault. 
   Only recently, during the August recess, I had the opportunity to lead a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Darfur. This was the first CODEL to the region since the announcement of the joint UN/AU peacekeeping force. Along with my colleagues Mr. Chabot, who joins me as the lead Republican cosponsor of this legislation, and Mr. Smith, I had the opportunity to meet with government officials, civil society leaders, international aid workers, and affected civilians, as well as with the African Union peacekeepers responsible for protecting Darfur. I saw first hand the immense suffering of the people of Darfur, as well as the enormous strain on the courageous but outnumbered AU peacekeepers. 
   Mr. Speaker, I strongly condemn recent attacks on African Union peacekeepers. This legislation also expresses the condolences of this House to the people and Governments of Nigeria, Mali, Senegal, and Botswana, the families and friends of 
   those individuals who were killed or missing in the attacks, and expresses its sympathies to those individuals who have been injured. It expresses the solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the African Union and the African Union peacekeepers as they recover from these attacks, and the readiness of Congress to support efforts to bring to justice those individuals responsible for the attacks and efforts to detect, pursue, disrupt, and dismantle the networks that plan and carry out such attacks. 
   This legislation also looks forward, to the process of bringing about a peace settlement for Darfur. Crucial though effective peacekeeping forces are, they are no substitute for a serious and sustained peace process. Consequently, this bill also expresses its support for the people of Darfur, Sudan, in their continued struggle against extremism and violence and support for their efforts to secure a permanent peace, justice, and return to their restored villages and homes, and it encourages all parties involved in the conflict to commit to negotiate a fmal and binding peace agreement at the peace talks, which began on October 27, 2007, in Tripoli, Libya. 
   Early reports from these negotiations have not been promising. With key rebel groups boycotting the peace talks, media reports indicate that mediators will now have to travel to Darfur to meet with rebel leaders before actual peace agreements can be reached. Despite these setbacks, U.N. Special Envoy Jan Eliasson has maintained optimism, saying yesterday ``I refuse to state that the peace process is interrupted.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, as United States foreign policy remains centered on the highly partisan debate over Iraq, we cannot allow Darfur to slip through the cracks. I thank the over 40 of my colleagues who have joined me in cosponsoring this important resolution, which reiterates that attacks on African Union peacekeepers in Darfur are unacceptable. Despite the setbacks experienced at this weekend's peace talks in Libya, I believe it is important that we condemn the attacks of recent weeks, and look forward to the construction of a lasting peace for Darfur. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENDING THE GENOCIDE IN DARFUR -- (House of Representatives - October 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Thank you, Madam Chairman and Madam Manager. I think it is appropriate to congratulate and to thank you again for giving us the opportunity to provide a face on the work of the Congressional Black Caucus and to thank our chairwoman, the Honorable Carolyn Kilpatrick, for working with us to continue to show the efforts being made that have such a vast array of impact. Let me thank the distinguished Speaker this evening for her leadership as well as we work together. 
   I am grateful that my first efforts with the Honorable Congressman Barbara Lee was an historic trip that we took some years ago as the first Presidential trip or major statement before the Marshall Plan on HIV/AIDS. I cite that to say that it can be done. You can get your hands around a major devastating killer. HIV/AIDS is a killer. It continues to kill in Africa. But yet there is the Millennium Account, there are a number of issues that address the question of HIV/AIDS. Part of it was out of the trip that Congresswoman Barbara Lee and myself and Congresswoman Kilpatrick went on some years ago.     
   And so as I stand here today to acknowledge the Congressional Black Caucus, I want to reinforce the fact of the number of Members who were arrested of the organized campaign to respond to the pain of what is going on, and the legislative initiatives and the work we did with Congresswoman Lee on the divestiture bill. And I, too, believe it is long overdue that this bill should move and be signed by the President of the United States. 
   Just this past summer, I led a delegation with the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Chabot) and the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith) to go into Darfur and get into the soul and the soil of Darfur and begin to realize and to emphasize the importance of moving on the peacekeepers. 
   We were the first American delegation to go in right after the recognition that the peacekeepers should come in and the agreement by the government in Khartoum, as represented to us by the U.N., that they had agreed to peacekeepers. We went in, and not only did we go to Darfur, Sudan, but we went to Tunisia and Algeria and Ethiopia, and we asked each governing body to provide troops to the peacekeeping effort through the African Union because it was a serious effort. 
   But what we found most of all was red tape. I want to put a human face on these refugee camps: 2.4 million displaced. The genocide in Darfur has destroyed well over 60 percent of the villages in Darfur, displaced over 2 million people, killed an estimated 400,000 and driven 200,000 into Chad, and that is a separate story in talking about the physical and emotional and financial burden of the refugees on Chad and the conflict that is rising up in Chad because of the refugees. 
   Today the House considered H. Res. 740, which condemned in the strongest terms the recent attacks on African Union peacekeepers that occurred in Haskanita, Darfur, Sudan, on September 29, 2007. I introduced this bill along with the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Chabot), and 55 Members joined me in this. They recognized that we are not going to make any steps of success to put a human face on the suffering. We are not going to be able to pull that suffering back, to be able to quash the janjaweed, to be able to separate the rebels, to prevent some of the tragic stories that I heard. 
   We sat in the refugee camps to listen to the women who spoke about their plight. This is a growing Rwanda. And I remember people saying, ``Never again, not on my watch.'' I remember the horror of recognizing the inaction of this government, the American Government as related to the crisis in Rwanda. Then it was we did not know. Now we have the backdrop of Rwanda. Thank God Rwanda is moving to a country of stability and overcoming their horrific crisis. But after a million deaths, is that what we want to see after 400,000 have died, over 2 million displaced, 2.4 million displaced, children whose birth weight is far below the average because of limited amount of access to food and water? In essence, there is a degree of malnutrition, even though I want to give great thanks to the NGOs, but it is just not enough. These people need food and health care and water and the ability to survive. 
   Yet we are seeing the constant dust up of the violence around the camps. We saw it firsthand, and it is important that these troops are able to come in without the violence. Let me just cite the incident that occurred on September 29. An estimated 1,000 members of a heavily armed Darfur rebel group in 30 vehicles, armed with heavy artillery and mortars overran a small base in Darfur, Sudan, which was occupied by the African Union mission peacekeepers. The ambush resulted in several hours of intense fighting that killed 10 peacekeepers and wounded many others. 
   According to U.N. estimates in the aftermath of this brutal attack, which was described by the African Union commander as deliberate and sustained, 15,000 civilians fled the area to neighboring towns or the wilderness fearing for their safety. And in the wilderness, there is nothing but death. There is violence by the janjaweed and rebels not in line with the peacekeeping mission. There is devastation, lack of water. There is lack of food. There is death. And the 15,000 that fled were the elderly, women with children and families. 
   Madam Speaker, this is what is going on in Sudan and so it is important for the Congressional Black Caucus to list a number of efforts, including the divestiture, including a number of initiatives, putting ourselves forward to protest at the Sudanese Embassy. 
   Let me say the recent ambassador that I discussed this matter with seemed to care, seemed to want to do something. But my words are that you can't want to do something; you must do something. 
   So here you can see the landscape. Although it reflects the landscape of Sudan generally, this is a compound where people are confined and these children have nowhere to go. They have no life. They have no games. They have no way of looking to the future. As you see, this group of children, there are thousands upon thousands upon thousands of children. Babies being born as well. And, therefore, these babies are being born with limited health care, malnutrition. And it  is important to note that they are struggling under these conditions. 
   This is a mother and child. They are trying to make mud bricks so they don't have to go out beyond the parameters of the refugee camp because that is when these women are attacked. Their livelihood is dependent on getting firewood as they did 50, maybe 100 years ago. Every time they go out to get firewood, the women are subjected to rape. The men cannot go because they may be killed, so the women go. They scavenge the land. It is completely barren because you have 2.4 million people living in one compound trying to survive. So they have come up with a creative way to try to use the mud to keep the fire going so they don't have to go out as much. This is the condition. This is where they cook. This is the communal cooking area. I can assure you, as loving as this mother is, that the food is so limited it may be one meal a day. It may be a porridge because of the limit of wildlife, access to meat and vegetables, and these are the conditions. 
   I will say to you that the people are resilient, but they are looking to us to do something, and the question is: What are we going to do? These are the women who I sat down with trying to make baskets to sell. I listened to their stories about the intrusions at night coming into the camps, going into their living quarters and attacking them. And only through their screams did they have men and others come to scare away the attackers. So they are not safe from rape even in these villages. This is a crime against humanity. 
   Those of us who believe in the sanctity of human life, the abhorrence of rape and violence, this is a disgrace of what these women are facing. I, too, join in reflecting in the words and the headlines in The Washington Post, ``U.S. Promises on Darfur Don't Match Actions.'' 
   But what I want to say to the Commander in Chief who has just asked for some $46 billion or more for the Iraq war when our soldiers have already done their job and the American people want them home, what we want to see done is where the benevolence of the United States can help get something accomplished, where people are looking for our safety net, and our technical help with the peacekeepers can make a difference. 
   Listen to these words from the former director of 
   the Darfur Coalition who I have worked with, and I thank him and thank them for their leadership. Bush insisted there must be consequences for rape and murder, and he called for international troops on the ground to protect innocent Darfuris. According to contemporaneous notes by one present, he spoke of bringing justice to the janjaweed, the Arab militia, that has participated in atrocities that the President has repeatedly described as nothing less than genocide. 
   Congresswoman Jones, you remember it was the Congressional Black Caucus sitting down with Secretary Colin Powell, and I thank him for what he did, but colleagues like our chairman of the Subcommitte on Africa, Donald Payne, claimed this was genocide, called this genocide many months before. But it was our persistence to meet with the Secretary of State, to sit down in a meeting at which he came, and at that meeting he made the statement which he then made public that he had determined this was genocide based on the pursuit, the pressure, the information, the agitation, the advocation of members of the CBC and of course other colleagues in the Democratic Caucus and of course in the Republican Caucus, because this is a bipartisan issue. 
   So the Secretary of State Colin Powell announced, I believe in 2004, that this was genocide by this government. So the President recognized what was happening, and the article goes on to say that the White House, President Bush, had an understanding of the issue that went beyond simple responding to a briefing that had been given, said David Rubinstein, a participant who was then executive director of the Save Darfur Coalition, which has been sharply critical of the administration's response to the crisis. 
   He knew more facts than I expected him to know, and he had a broader political perspective than I expected him to know. Yet a year and a half later, having known all of this information, the situation as you reported on the ground in Darfur is little changed, and more than 2 million people remain displaced. The question is that if we know all of this, if the administration knows all of this, if we have declared genocide, it is imperative that we act. 
   In my visit in August, I could see there was no action. There was no action in the south to settle that down so rebels are scattered. There are now multiple rebel groups, and then there is the conflict with the janjaweed. 
   I think tonight what we wanted to do was to reconfirm and reaffirm the Congressional Black Caucus is not going to let this rest. We are not going to suffer the indignities that these people are experiencing and suffering. We are going to call on our colleagues in the Congress. We are going to thank Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer and Majority Whip Clyburn, Chairman Emanuel and Vice Chairman Larson and our leadership in the Congressional Black Caucus, which I am proud to serve as whip, our leadership, that what I believe we need now is for this administration to move on getting the peacekeepers on the ground, to not take no for an answer, to help move the U.N. so they can join with the African Union peacekeepers, because it is clear we need additional help other than the African Union troops. We must have additional help. 
   The last thing I want to say, we have friends and allies, and they include members of the Arab League and China. We cannot continue to have our allies empower and embolden the Khartoum Government without solving this problem. If they think 2.4 million people are okay and nothing is happening, I am here to tell you they are wrong. Rape and pillage and suffering is going on. I ask on this floor for the U.N. and the new Secretary General to take a firm stand to move U.N. peacekeepers in now and to help the AMIS effort, the African Union peacekeepers now, and have these people move back to their places of residence and to solve the violence and the viciousness going on in Darfur. Enough of genocide and enough of the travesty on human rights. 
   I include the remainder of The Washington Post article dated September 29, 2007, for the Record. 
   Way of Sending Troops 
   At an appearance in Tennessee this summer, Bush raised a question many have asked about the situation in Darfur: ``If there is a problem, why don't you just go take care of it?'' But Bush said he considered--and decided against--sending U.S. troops unilaterally. ``It just wasn't the right decision,'' he said. 
   With the United States tied down in Iraq and Afghanistan, skepticism about using U.S. soldiers, even in a limited way, cut across agencies and bodies that often disagree, from the State Department to the Pentagon to Vice President Cheney's office, according to many current and former officials. 
   Advisers say Bush came to accept, albeit grudgingly, the arguments against using U.S. military assets--especially the possibility that they might attract al-Qaeda. ``In my mind, there would never be enough troops to impose order on this place,'' former secretary of state Colin L. Powell said an interview. ``The only way to resolve this problem was for there to be a political settlement between the rebels and the government.'' 
   Sharing this belief was Powell's bureaucratic nemesis, then-Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who advocated sending troops to Iraq but not to the middle of Africa, according to many officials in the government. 
   This aversion to any use of force was frustrating to some lower-ranking government officials, who saw a modest U.S. military effort as indispensable to making the Sudanese take American diplomacy seriously. Early in the crisis, in the summer of 2004, the U.S. mission in Khartoum made clear to Washington its belief that the African Union was incapable of dealing with the security problem in Darfur on its own. 
   It recommended that several hundred U.S. troops help fly in African Union forces and provide other assistance, according to a former State Department official. The idea was never seriously entertained, the official said, and it was not until two years later that the United States began making efforts at the United Nations to bolster the overmatched African mission. 
   Roger Winter, a former State Department official who was intimately involved with Sudan policy during the Bush administration, argues that the United States has never been serious about pressuring the Sudanese government. ``They know what we will do and what we won't do,'' he said. ``And they don't respond unless there is a credible threat. And they haven't viewed everything that has happened up until now as credible.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (ENDING THE GENOCIDE IN DARFUR -- (House of Representatives - October 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. If the gentlelady would yield, first of all, to thank him for sharing his insight and his leadership and thank you for allowing us to have that opportunity, and just to be able to emphasize, he was firm that he wanted and needed and thought that they needed more help. And that help was, of course, the United States, the U.N., and a number of other countries. 
   And I'd just like to finish by saying, as there may be those listening, I would encourage as you mentioned that resolution about thanking the various advocacy groups to continue their work and to reach out to the college campuses, because I remember speaking at the University of Nevada. They are there; they want to work. College campuses can be the agitation to get this government to move, to continue the light on the genocide in Darfur. 
   And I thank you for yielding to me just to be able to say, college students, get about the business because you can make a difference. Organize Save Darfur Coalitions on your campus, and call and write and e-mail about the crisis in Darfur. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CONDEMNING THE ATTACKS ON AFRICAN UNION PEACEKEEPERS IN HASKANITA, DARFUR, SUDAN -- (House of Representatives - October 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, today on the floor of the House, I was very pleased to have debated H. Res. 740 that I authored with Congressman Chabot from Ohio and joined by 55 of my colleagues. 
   This resolution denounced the attack on African Union peacekeepers. And it was a result of the codel led by myself, joined by Congressman Chabot and Congressman Smith from Nebraska, the first codel to go into Darfur since the signing of the agreement dealing with the peacekeepers. 
   It is time now for our eyes to focus on a safe return of those who have suffered to their homeland, 2.4 million displaced Sudanese, Darfurians, who live in a state of flux and fear. 
   It is an outrage that these peacekeepers would be attacked. It is an outrage that, as the African Union has stood up to be counted and provided soldiers on the field to protect those refugees, it is an outrage that they are being attacked. 
   We ask the U.N. to intervene to provide more peacekeepers. We ask that the genocide stop. And we ask that Khartoum recognize that they have an obligation to the people of Sudan. Stop the genocide. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO HOUSE AMENDMENTS TO SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3221, HOUSING AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the distinguished gentlelady from Florida for her leadership and yielding to me. I thank the chairman of the full committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people are asking this Congress to do the  right thing. They are certainly not asking us to blame them for the crisis in the mortgage foreclosure market. 
   And as a member of the Judiciary Committee, I know the number of bankruptcies of hardworking Americans. This bill provides a refundable first-time home buyer credit, $7,500. It provides a temporary increase in the low-income housing tax credit. And it does not bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
   It is simply a guarantee to protect the American consumers and taxpayers. This Congress will make sure you are protected. All it does is says the Secretary of the Treasury can provide a guarantee if necessary. Then, of course, it buys back all those foreclosed homes on your block that keeps your house from going down in value. This is a bill that is needed. 
   I support the rule and the underlying bill. The American people are asking this Congress to do the right thing, and this Democratic Congress is going to do the right thing on behalf of the American people. 
   The people of Houston Texas, the 18th Congressional District, need this relief. We will vote on it today.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HOUSING AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3221, the ``American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008''. This momentous legislation will jump-start the market for mortgages by establishing a true market value for the securities backed by these loans. H.R. 3221 responds directly to the current housing crisis facing this country, while providing the tools to prevent a repeat of these problems. This will help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future, and help the recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught in the foreclosure process. 
   This legislation provides mortgage refinancing assistance to keep at least 400,000 families from losing their homes, to protect neighboring home values, and to help stabilize the housing market at no cost to American taxpayers. This legislation also protects taxpayers by requiring lenders and homeowners to take responsibility. This is not a bailout; in order to participate, lenders and mortgage investors must take significant losses by reducing the loan principal. 
   This legislation contains critical protections for taxpayers' dollars, including higher refinancing fees that establish a new FHA reserve to cover possible losses from defaults on these government-backed mortgages. I support this legislation because only primary residences are eligible: NO speculators, investment properties, second or third homes will be refinanced and it provides $180 million for financial counseling and legal assistance to help families stay in their homes. 
   H.R. 3221 gives the Secretary of the Treasury the authority to increase the already existing line of credit to Freddie and Fannie for the next 18 months, as well as giving the Treasury Department standby authority to buy stock in those companies to provide confidence in the GSEs and stabilize housing finance markets. 
   While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac both now meet the capital and liquidity requirements set by their regulator, given the severe turmoil in the markets, the standby authority is needed to increase market confidence and enable both enterprises to continue to raise capital and maintain the availability of mortgage credit. This bill requires the Treasury Secretary to make an emergency designation before using the authority--certifying that he is acting to provide stability to financial markets, prevent disruptions in the availability of mortgage finance, protect the taxpayers, and facilitate an orderly restoration of private markets. No spending would occur unless the Secretary certifies that 
   there is an emergency that requires immediate action. However, if those conditions are not met, there would not be any increase in the deficit as a result of this legislation. 
   I support that this legislation provides $4 billion in emergency assistance (CDBG Funds) to communities hardest hit by the foreclosure and subprime crisis to purchase foreclosed homes, at a discount, and rehabilitate or redevelop the homes to stabilize neighborhoods and stem the significant losses in home values of neighboring homes. This legislation establishes a nationwide loan originator licensing and registration system that will set minimum standards for loan originator licensing substantially improving the oversight of mortgage brokers and bank loan officers. It also establishes improved mortgage disclosure requirements that will help ensure that mortgage borrowers understand their mortgage loan terms. 
   This legislation preserves the American Dream for Our Nation's Veterans. It increases the VA Home Loan limit, helping returning soldiers avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. This legislation requires the Department of Defense to establish a counseling program for veterans and active service members facing financial difficulties and provides a moving benefit to servicemen and women who are forced to move out because their rental housing was foreclosed on. It also increases benefits paid to veterans with disabilities, such as blindness, to adapt their housing and allows the Veterans Administration to provide for improvements to homes of veterans with service-connected disabilities. 
   This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today. This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. As President Franklin Delano Roosevelt stated in 1933, ``the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' We must do just that. We must move forward and that is exactly what H.R. 3221 seeks to do. 
   This legislation will begin to repair, not bailout, the economy, by restoring confidence in the markets, limiting the damage to families and neighborhoods, and rejuvenating the communities with new affordable housing. Ironically, we celebrate the bailouts of yesteryear, when we believed that the power of the Federal Government was needed to get the country out of the Depression. 
   Were the banking reform laws, emergency relief programs, work relief programs, and agricultural programs, the Social Security Act, and programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers--were these bailouts? Many of the New Deal programs under President Roosevelt were considered bailouts at that time. And yet, these programs brought our country out of the Depression, rejuvenated out economy, and gave hope as we sought to deal with the War overseas. 
   TEXAS 
   Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in pre-foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active foreclosures. 
   H.R. 3221 helps homeowners and only homeowners, not speculators or lenders. We cannot continue to stand by as things get worse. Texas reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, a 16 percent increase from the previous month and the 
   most foreclosure filings reported by any state. The state documented the Nation's third highest state combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 households. 
   Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of losing their homes.  
   While this bill should not be the last word in housing legislation, it is a great beginning. This bill coupled with Congresswoman Maxine Waters's bill, H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood Stabilization Act, provides a good starting point in providing Americans with relief. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RELATING TO THE CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5724, UNITED STATES-COLOMBIA TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady from New York, and I am so much in favor of this process that I had to bring two constitutional books to the floor to be seen by my colleagues. 
   I support this initiative because it restores the constitutional authority to this floor and to the Speaker of the House. And for someone who has voted for trade bills that are fair, I ask my colleagues to recognize that we have an obligation to the American people. For if we look at the month of March, the third month of declining numbers of U.S. jobs, with losses widespread across all sectors and the biggest losses coming in construction and manufacturing, the experts, including Federal Chairman Ben Bernanke and former Federal Chairman Alan Greenspan, have confirmed the serious challenges to the United States economy. One former Labor Secretary has also uttered the word ``depression.'' 
   This is an opportunity for us to be able to establish our authority on the floor to work through legislation and to ask the question of my friends on the other side of the aisle, if trade bills are so effective, why are we losing jobs? Why are people without employment? Why are we in this economic crisis? 
   And so we are standing up for American workers. We are standing up for the workers in Colombia. I have the greatest respect for President Uribe. I look forward to working on legislation that addresses the labor concerns of working-class indigenous Colombians, and this is a two-way street. My friends on the other side of the aisle cannot prove that ignoring the Constitution will get us jobs. 
   Vote for this resolution.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1092, the rule for consideration of H.R. 5724 implementing the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement. I would like to thank Speaker PELOSI for her exemplary leadership on this important issue and for bringing this rule to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is vital to delay the consideration of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement, FTA. The Republican-controlled 109th Congress recklessly allowed the President to precipitously pass free trade agreements without sufficient consideration of the impact on our economy and hard-working Americans and without ensuring that the labor rights of workers are protected in the country seeking the FTA. Today more than ever, with our economy suffering from a substantial downturn, which includes rising unemployment and a housing foreclosure crisis, it is imperative that the Democratic-controlled 110th Congress continue our practice of providing sufficient consideration of free trade agreements prior to their implementation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I had the pleasure of visiting Colombia last year, and I am extremely concerned about the ongoing oppression of Afro-Colombian populations. Afro-Colombians face the same social barriers that all Afro-Latinos face around Latin America; social marginalization, lack of access to health care, lack of educational opportunities, lack of workforce opportunities. In Colombia, however, this marginalization is intensified by the ongoing conflict. The effects of the armed conflict, specifically forced displacement, in Colombia falls disproportionately on the back of Afro-Colombians. In fact, Colombia's highest rate of displacement in 2003 was recorded in the Choc&#243; region, where approximately 75 percent of the population is Afro-Colombian. Because Afro-Colombians largely inhabit areas that have been neglected by the federal government, they have been extremely appealing targets for narco-traffickers, guerilla insurgent groups, and paramilitary forces. Afro-Colombians have been forcibly and violently displaced, and they continue to face a range of human rights abuses that go uninvestigated by the judicial system. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that the Colombian Government must be more active protecting and promoting the rights of Afro-Colombian populations. This must take the shape of providing more access to health care and education, especially for internally 
   displaced persons. Additionally, more security must be established in typically neglected regions. 
   H. Res. 1092, as reported by the House Rules Committee, provides that two sections--section 151(e)(1) and section 151(f)(1)--of the Trade Act of 1974 shall not apply in the case of H.R. 5724, to implement the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement. In effect, Mr. Speaker, this rule will suspend the requirement that the Colombia Free Trade Agreement be considered within 60 legislative days in the House. It will give Congress the prerogative to schedule a vote on this piece of legislation, working with labor and many other groups concerned about American workers and fair trade. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe that rushing this legislation to the floor would be an incredible mistake. We are currently in the midst of an economic downturn, with numbers released last Friday showing a sharp increase in the number of jobless Americans. According to these numbers, the number of jobs outside the agricultural sector fell by 80,000 last month, a figure that represents the biggest drop in nearly five years. 
   March is the third month of declining numbers of U.S. jobs, with losses widespread across all sectors and the biggest losses coming in construction and manufacturing. The experts, including Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, have confirmed the serious challenges facing the United States economy. 
   Mr. Speaker, now is the time to strengthen the American economy. This Congress must put American workers first. I believe that, through bipartisan negotiations coupled with urgent action taken to repair the struggling American economy, we can create the conditions for a successful free trade deal with Colombia. However, Mr. Speaker, this will take time. 
   Instead of working with Congress to address the legitimate and serious economic concerns of the American people, the President has engaged in highly partisan politics to attempt to ram this legislation through the Congress. On Tuesday, President Bush took the unprecedented step of sending his Colombia trade deal to Congress without following established protocols of congressional consultation. By engaging in this political maneuver, the President has forced Congress to take this action. 
   The rule we are considering today would remove the fast-track timeline for the Colombia free-trade agreement. By doing so, this rule returns the role, provided by the Constitution, of scheduling considering of measures to the Congress. The authority to do so is provided in the Fast Track law, PL 107-210, which explicitly recognizes ``the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating the procedures of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as any other rule of that House.'' Today, we are doing exactly that. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe there are a number of issues that need to be addressed before a free trade deal with Colombia is approved. In addition to the concerns about the American economy and American workers, trade legislation should also benefit the people of Colombia, particularly the working classes. I remain concerned about many ongoing abuses in Colombia that, in my opinion, make such a deal inappropriate at this time. In 
   particular, I am concerned about the suppression of labor rights in Colombia and the targeted killing of labor organizers. Two Foreign Affairs subcommittees, the Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight and the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, held a hearing last June about the ongoing pattern of labor violence in Colombia, and I would like to see many of the issues raised in that hearing addressed before a trade deal with Colombia is signed. 
   I believe that President Alvaro Uribe Velez has, since taking office in August 2002, made important strides toward establishing state control throughout the country, to revitalize the  economy, and to combat corruption. I also believe that a fair free trade agreement can immensely benefit the people of Colombia. Colombia continues to face severe income disparities, coupled with poverty and inadequate social services. According to World Bank estimates, 65 percent of Colombia's population lives below the poverty line. Poverty in rural areas is particularly severe, with rates in these regions approaching 80 percent, and the World Bank estimates that 38 percent of rural residents do not have access to potable water, and 68 percent do not have access to sewage treatment services. In addition, Colombia's rural areas have an estimated illiteracy rate of 15 percent. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe we must work together to develop and pass a trade bill that will benefit the American economy, and that will also trickle down to benefit all levels of Colombian society. I was proud to cosponsor and to vote for the Trade and Development Act of 2000, which included the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act. This legislation expanded the Caribbean Basin Initiative, which is intended to facilitate the economic development and export diversification of the Caribbean Basin economies. I supported this initiative because it not only benefited American workers and the American economy, but it also carried true benefits for the people of the target nations. I am proud to vote for fair free trade legislation that will benefit workers both here and abroad. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support this rule because it will return to Congress its constitutionally granted power to schedule consideration of legislation, and it will give us the flexibility necessary to hold bipartisan negotiations regarding this legislation. I urge my colleagues to put the American economy and American workers first during this financially uncertain time, and to support the passage of H. Res. 1092.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO MICHAEL ELLIS <em>DeBAKEY</em>, M.D. -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a citizen of Houston, the greatest city in the greatest state of the world's greatest country, and as an original co-sponsor of the legislation, I rise proudly to support H.R. 1154, which authorizes the awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to Michael Ellis DeBakey, M.D. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest expression of national appreciation for exceptional service and for lifetime contributions. The medal has been awarded to individuals from all walks of life. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Coretta Scott King, Pope John Paul II, the Navajo Code Talkers, Rosa Parks, Frank Sinatra, and Elie Wiesel are among those who have been honored. Dr. Michael DeBakey is exceptionally well qualified to join the list of individuals who have received this most distinguished of honors. As I would like to discuss briefly, Dr. DeBakey is one of the greatest Americans of the 20th Century. 
   Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey, internationally renowned physician, is known foremost for his pioneering work as a cardiovascular surgeon. Although he is widely regarded as ``the father of modern cardiovascular surgery'' due to his path-breaking introduction of now common-place procedures such as arterial bypass operations, artificial hearts, and heart transplants, Dr. DeBakey's contributions in fields diverse as military medicine, veterans affairs, and public health policy would place him in the first rank of all the practitioners of the healing arts who ever lived. 
   Born in 1908 in Lake Charles, Louisiana, Dr. DeBakey received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Tulane University. After receiving surgical training in Europe, Dr. DeBakey returned to the United States and enlisted in the Army at the onset of World War II. His service on the Surgeon General's staff during the war was pivotal; studies conducted by Dr. DeBakey and his colleagues led to the creation of ``mobile army surgical hospital'' (MASH) units that revolutionized battlefield medicine would go on to save hundred of thousands of lives in that and subsequent wars. For his wartime contributions to the Nation, Lt. Col. DeBakey was awarded the Legion of Merit Award in 1945. 
   Following the war, Dr. DeBakey's expertise in the development of specialized medical and surgical center-systems contributed greatly to the design and formation of the Veterans Administration Medical Center System. In addition, Dr. DeBakey played a leading role in persuading the Congress to create and fund the National Library of Medicine, where records of the Nation's medical research activities are stored for the benefit of future researchers. 
   Dr. DeBakey's arrival in Houston at the Baylor College of Medicine heralded the development of Baylor and Houston's Texas Medical Center into world-renowned centers of medical excellence. As Baylor's Chairman of Surgery and later President, Dr. DeBakey spearheaded efforts to associate Baylor with the TMC's network of hospitals, secured Federal funding for research, and recruited 
   numerous highly-acclaimed faculty and researchers to Baylor. During that time, Dr. DeBakey was also an active and innovative clinician: introducing the Dacron artificial arteries in 1953, the first successful coronary bypass in the early 1960s, and the first successful multi-organ transplant in 1968. 
   Dr. DeBakey's wisdom has been sought by virtually every U.S. president since Harry S. Truman. He served on presidential commissions during both the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, and thus provided essential support in the passage of the landmark 1965 Medicare legislation. Dr. DeBakey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction in 1969 and the National Medal of Science by President Ronald Reagan in 1987. He currently serves as Chancellor Emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine and continues to see patients, pursue his research, serve on national advisory committees, and consult on projects to help develop health care systems in the Middle and Far East. 
   It is for these reasons and more, Madam Speaker, that I led the fight throughout the 107th and 108th Congress to pass legislation naming the Houston Veterans Hospital in my Congressional district after this great American. This effort finally came to fruition in the 108th Congress when the President signed into law Pub. L. 108-170. 
   The awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey is an appropriate act of recognition from a grateful nation to a person who has devoted his life to improving life in America and around the world. I strongly support H.R. 1154 and urge my colleagues to join me in voting to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Michael Ellis DeBakey, M.D., one of Houston's greatest sons and America's greatest citizens. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CALLING ON GOVERNMENT OF PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA TO RELEASE CERTAIN PRISONERS AND END SUPPRESSION OF UYGHUR PEOPLE -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 497, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the Government of the People's Republic of China should immediately release from custody the children of Rebiya Kadeer and Canadian citizen Huseyin Celil and should refrain from further engaging in acts of cultural, linguistic, and religious suppression directed against the Uyghur people, and for other purposes. I want to congratulate my good friend and colleague, the distinguished ranking member of this Committee, Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, for this important human rights resolution. It is the responsibility of the Congress to remind the government of the People's Republic of China of their obligations to live up to international standards to protect ethnic cultural identities and minority rights. 
   Mr. Speaker, not only does the People's Republic of China systemically abuse the basic human rights of its minority citizens, but its repressive tactics extend to the members of politically active human rights advocates' families. Furthermore, the government has manipulated the international war on terrorism to justify its repressive treatment of the Muslim population living in Xinjiang, as well as encouraging Chinese migration into the region in an attempt to purify the region of its traditional Uyghur occupants. 
   It is extremely important that the United States hold the government of the People's Republic of China responsible to international standards regarding political as well as basic human rights. The government brutally suppresses even the slightest attempts of peaceful political, religious, and cultural expression of Uyghurs in Xinjiang. As a member of Congress, I feel particularly responsible to Uyghur human rights activist Rebiya Kadeer, who was arrested while she was on her way to meet representatives of our Congressional Research Service. While she was released from prison following international lobbying efforts, deemed a prisoner of consciousness by Amnesty International, upon resumption of her human rights advocacy abroad, her sons in Xinjiang were arrested and remain imprisoned to this day. 
   This resolution also raises the human rights issues of Huseyin Cecil, a Uyghur Canadian who was recently convicted in a kangaroo court to life imprisonment on ``bogus'' charges. The Canadian government and Embassy Officials have been refused access to their citizen throughout the process, and the Chinese government has blatantly refused to accept even the most basic norms of diplomatic conduct. 
   By supporting this resolution, the United States will alert the Chinese government that it must respect the minority rights of the Uyghur people as well as the rights of human rights advocates. The resolution requires the immediate release of the children of Rebiya Kadeer as well as Mr. Cecil so that they might all return to their families. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IN PRAISE OF RENAMING THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION HEADQUARTERS BUILDING IN HONOR OF PRESIDENT LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to President Lyndon Baines Johnson. We have the honor today of having his name placed on the building of the United States Department of Education. I was not able to attend because of a health crisis in one of my middle schools in Houston. I believe that President Johnson would understand. 
   As an original cosponsor of the legislation and certainly proud of him as a Texas President on the educational issues that he worked on, I am here today to call him the greatest education President in the history of our Nation. 
   It is appropriate this day when we honor our Constitution, which begins in this little book by saying, ``We have organized to form a more perfect union,'' to be able to salute the education President. It is by no exaggeration that we watched the legislative history of President Johnson and have seen his commitment to education. He truly understood the importance of providing opportunities for those from prekindergarten to postgraduate school. It makes perfect sense, therefore, to name the headquarters building of the U.S. Department of Education in his honor. I congratulate my colleague Congressman Gene Green for leading on this legislation. 
   Lyndon Baines Johnson is one of the leading figures of the 20th century. He started as a teacher at San Marcos State College, and he then became President of the United States. He also was lieutenant commander in the United States Navy during World War II, and served in both Houses of Congress and as Vice President of the United States and as the 36th President of the United States as well. 
   He put his words into deed, making him a valuable asset to the education of our young people in America. He was known as ``Landslide Lyndon'' because of the narrow win that he achieved in 1948. He put that behind him and went forward to approve the Higher Education Facilities Act in 1963 as President, which authorized a 5-year program of Federal grants and loans for construction or improvement of public and private higher education academic facilities. 
   He laid the groundwork for prioritizing as important to Americans the education of its young people. The legislation was the largest education program enacted by Congress since the National Defense Education Act of 1958. It was a broad education bill enacted in post-World War II, a period that was not tied to national defense. 
   In 1964, Lyndon Johnson signed the Library Services Act to make high quality public libraries more accessible to both urban and rural residents, and today our children are able to go to our urban and rural libraries where those who don't have an access not only to books but now the Internet can participate in the Nation's libraries. 
   We know President Johnson as well through the era of the Civil Rights Movement, a very turbulent movement, a tough time, a time when he stood back and then he stood up. He signed the 1964 Civil Rights Act. He signed the 1965 Voting Rights Act and created opportunities for southerners and all Americans to vote and allowed for the redistricting to create the district in Atlanta for Andy Young and the district of Barbara Jordan in Texas. 
   We are delighted as well that he was instrumental in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that allowed the furtherance of secondary and elementary education. This was the first general aid to education program ever adopted by Congress. He started in 1965 Project Head Start, where we have seen now the reauthorization of a very important and very needed head start to our young people. 
   Just this week, I participated in a newly opened Head Start program, the legacy of President Lyndon Baines Johnson, the opportunity for low income families, low income children to have the jump-start that they need, creating the next presidents and astronauts and teachers. 
   In 1968, he signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act amendments establishing bilingual education programs for non-English-speaking children and providing more funds for special education for disabled children. 
   He continued, even after his leaving the White House, the organization of his own library, to focus on education. Certainly he was one of the strong supporters and encouragers of the Honorable Barbara Jordan, who then became a Member of Congress in 1972 pursuant to the Civil Rights Act and the Voter Rights Act of 1975. 
   I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge Claudia Alta Taylor, who became affectionately known as Lady Bird, his wife, who then started our great Capitol Beautification Project, the Society for a More Beautiful National Capital, and worked, of course, to beautify America. They made a good partnership. As they continued in their life, they never forgot education; they never forgot beautification. 
   President Johnson is someone who understood power, but he understood compassion. I am very delighted today, Mr. Speaker, to salute Lyndon Baines Johnson, who today now has his name on a very important building, the U.S. Department of Education. We salute you, we thank you to the late Lyndon Baines Johnson, President of the United States of America.  
   Mr. Speaker, earlier today the headquarters building of the United States Department of Education was renamed in honor of President Lyndon Baines Johnson. As an original co-sponsor of the legislation and as a proud Texan, I rise today to commend this action and to pay tribute to Lyndon Baines Johnson, the 36th President of the United States and the greatest ``Education President'' in the history of our nation. 
   President Lyndon Baines Johnson was a consequential president. It is no exaggeration to say, Mr. Speaker, that Lyndon Baines Johnson's record of extending the benefits of education to all Americans in every region of the country, of every race and gender, irrespective of economic class or family background, remains unsurpassed. Lyndon Johnson recognized that the educated citizenry is a nation's greatest economic asset and most powerful guardian of its political liberties. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Johnson did more than any single American, living or dead, to make the federal government a partner with states and localities in the vitally important work of educating the people of America, from pre-kindergarten to post-graduate school. It makes perfect sense, therefore, to name the headquarters building of the U.S. Department of Education in his honor. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson was one of the leading figures of the 20th century. The teacher from San Marcos State College who became a president served his country in numerous, distinguished ways, including as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy during World War II, as a Member of both houses of Congress, as Vice President of the United States, and as the 36th President of the United States. 
   Lyndon Baines Johnson was born on August 27, 1908, in Stonewall, Texas. In 1927, he enrolled in Southwest Texas State Teachers College at San Marcos, Texas (Texas State University-San Marcos). He took a leave of absence for a year to serve as principal and teach fifth, sixth, and seventh grades at Welhausen School, a Mexican-American school in the South Texas town of Cotulla. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in August 1930. After graduation he taught at Pearsall High School in Pearsall, Texas, and taught public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston, Texas. In the spring of 1931, his debate team won the district championship. 
   In a special election in 1937, Johnson won the U.S. House of Representatives seat representing the 10th Congressional District of Texas, defeating nine other candidates. He was re-elected to a full term in the 76th Congress and to each succeeding Congress until 1948. 
   After the bombing of Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Johnson became the first Member of Congress to volunteer for active duty in the armed forces (U.S. Navy), reporting for active duty on December 9, 1941. Johnson received the Silver Star from General 
   Douglas MacArthur for gallantry in action during an aerial combat mission over hostile positions in New Guinea on June 9, 1942. President Roosevelt ordered all Members of Congress in the armed forces to return to their offices, and Johnson was released from active duty on July 16, 1942. 
   In 1948, after a campaign in which he traveled by ``newfangled'' helicopter all over the state, Johnson won the primary by 87 votes and earned the nickname `Landslide Lyndon',  and in the general election was elected to the U.S. Senate. He was elected Minority Leader of the Senate in 1953 and Majority Leader in 1955. He served in the U.S. Senate until he resigned to become Vice President in January 1961. 
   Lyndon Johnson became the 36th President of the United States on November 22, 1963, after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
   During his administration, education was one of the many areas where President Johnson blazed new ground. He pursued numerous education initiatives, and signed many landmark education bills into law. 
   In 1963, President Johnson approved the Higher Education Facilities Act (P.L. 88-204) which authorized a five-year program of federal grants and loans for construction or improvement of public and private higher education academic facilities. This legislation was the largest education program enacted by Congress since the National Defense Education Act of 1958, and it was the first broad education bill enacted in the post-World War II period that was not tied to national defense. 
   In 1964, Johnson signed the Library Services Act (P.L. 88-269) to make high quality public libraries more accessible to both urban and rural residents. The funds made available under this Act were used to construct as well as operate libraries, and to extend this program to cities as well as rural areas. Later that year, President Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act (P.L. 88-352), which among its landmark provisions authorized federal authorities to sue for the desegregation of schools and to withhold federal funds from education institutions that practiced segregation. 
   In 1965, President Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (P.L. 89-10) at the former Junction Elementary School in Stonewall, Texas, where he first attended school. Sitting beside him as he signed the bill was his first teacher, Mrs. Kathryn Deadrich Loney. This legislation was the first general aid-to-education program ever adopted by Congress, and it provided programs to help educate disadvantaged children in urban and rural areas. Later that year, he also signed the Higher Education Act (P.L. 89-329), which was the first program approved by the U.S. Congress for scholarships to undergraduate students. 
   In 1965, President Johnson launched Project Head Start, as an eight-week summer program, to help break the cycle of poverty by providing pre-school children from low-income families with a comprehensive program to meet their emotional, social, health, nutritional, and psychological needs. Recruiting children from ages three to school-entry age, Head Start was enthusiastically received by education and child development specialists, community leaders, and parents across the nation. Currently, Head Start continues to serve children and their families each year in urban and rural areas in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Territories, as well as many migrant children. 
   In 1966, President Johnson signed the International Education Act (P.L. 89-698), which promoted international studies at U.S. colleges and universities. 
   In 1968, he signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act Amendments of 1967 (P.L. 90-247), establishing bilingual education programs for non-English speaking children, and providing more funds for special education for disabled children. Later that year, he also signed the Handicapped Children's Early Education Assistance Act (P.L. 90-538), which authorized experimental programs for disabled children of pre-school age. 
   After leaving office, Lyndon Johnson returned to his native Texas and continued his involvement in public education. His presidential papers are housed at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum at the University of Texas, which in 1970 established the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs, The ``LBJ School,'' as is commonly known, pioneered what was then regarded as a novel approach to training for public service. Because of her respect and admiration for President Johnson, the late Barbara Jordan, the first woman and African American to represent the citizens of the Eighteenth Congressional District of Texas, joined the LBJ School upon her retirement from Congress and was one of its most distinguished faculty members from 1979 until her death in 1996. 
   The curriculum combined courses in theory with courses that took students into government agencies to work and conduct research; the faculty included academics from various disciplines as well as practitioners from various levels of government; public service programs included an academic publishing program as well as workshops for government officials. This blend of the academic and the practical remains the distinguishing characteristic of the LBJ School and this highly effective approach to training for public service is today an accepted model for public affairs graduate programs across the country. 
   Mr. Speaker, Lyndon Baines Johnson, who died January 22, 1973, will be remembered not only as a great President and Member of Congress, but also as the greatest champion of accessible and affordable quality education for all. President Johnson truly understood the importance of leaving no child behind, and he didn't. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I failed to note one of President Johnson's greatest achievements and that was winning the hand and heart of Claudia Alta Taylor, affectionately known by all simply as ``Lady Bird.'' As First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson started a capital beautification project (Society for a More Beautiful National Capital) to improve physical conditions in Washington, D.C., both for residents and tourists. Her efforts inspired similar programs throughout the country. She was also instrumental in promoting the Highway Beautification Act, which sought to beautify the nation's highway system by limiting billboards and by planting roadside areas. She was also an advocate of the Head Start program. Throughout his life, Lady Bird was LBJ's most trusted advisor and confidant. And our nation is better for it. 
   Robert A. Caro, author of ``Path to Power,'' the Pulitzer Prize winning biography of Lyndon Johnson, has written that what set Lyndon Johnson apart from nearly every other politician of his era is that he alone possessed a ``natural genius for politics.'' LBJ understood that politics was the art of the possible but he knew how to transform possibilities into realities. That is why we have a Civil Rights Act, a Voting Rights Act, Head Start, Public Broadcasting Systems, Higher Education assistance. That is why Thurgood Marshall was nominated and confirmed as a member of the Supreme Court. That is why the first African American to head a Cabinet department, Dr. Robert C. Weaver, was nominated by Lyndon Johnson. 
   For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, it is most appropriate that the headquarters building of the Department of Education located at 400 Maryland Avenue Southwest in the District of Columbia will now and forevermore be known as the ``Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education Building.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE REMARKABLE EXAMPLE OF SIR NICHOLAS WINTON -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 583, recognizing the remarkable example of Sir Nicholas Winton, who organized the rescue of 669 Jewish Czechoslovakian children from Nazi death camps prior to the outbreak of World War II. I would like to thank my colleague, Congressman RON KLEIN, for introducing this important legislation, as well as the lead Republican cosponsor, Congressman LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART. 
   Mr. Speaker, today we recognize one of the great unsung heroes of World War II; a man who stood up against extraordinary evil to defend innocent children. Sir Nicholas Winton is an individual of profound moral decency and personal courage, who, in the midst of the immense darkness of World War II, offered hope that the perpetrators of horrendous atrocities would not prevail. 
   In 1938, Nicholas Winton, a 29-year-old clerk at the London Stock Exchange, visited Prague and was immediately concerned by the refugee situation. His frequent business trips to Germany had given him first-hand knowledge of the virulent anti-Semitism codified by the 1935 Nuremberg Race laws, manifesting itself in ever-increasing attacks, harassment, and arrest of Jewish people in Germany. The 1938 Munich Agreement, which gave Hitler control over the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia and was hailed by British Prime Minister as a ``peace for our time,'' did not ease Winton's fears, and he came to recognize that Germany could not be appeased. 
   When Winton visited Prague, he found refugee camps, full of freezing Jewish families who had fled the Sudetenland. In particular, he was alarmed that nothing was being done to help the many innocent children, trapped in the gathering storm of war. Before returning to London, he set up a system of Kindertransport, where the names of children where collected and paired with foster homes in Britain and Sweden. When families could not pay to transport their children beyond the reaches of the Nazis, Winton raised money to fund transportation and other fees. 
   On March 14, 1939, only a day before the Nazi army occupied all of Czechoslovakia, the first 20 children left Prague. Over the next six months, a total of 669 children were sent via 8 trains to London, where families waited to shelter them. These children were spared the horror of the concentration camps by the courageous efforts of one man. Vera Gissing, one of the many children who, thanks to Winton's work, survived the war, later 
   wrote, ``He rescued the greater part of the Jewish children of my generation in Czechoslovakia. Very few of us met our parents again: they perished in concentration camps. Had we not been spirited away, we would have been murdered alongside them.'' 
   A 9th train was scheduled to leave on September 3, 1939, with 250 children onboard. Tragically, Great Britain entered the war that very day, and the train was prevented from leaving Prague, and it later disappeared. None of the children on board was ever heard from again, and none survived the war. In all, 15,000 Czech children were killed in the Holocaust. 
   Nicholas Winton is a reluctant hero, who never bragged about his courageous work. He never sought recognition for his actions, and we only learned about his efforts by coincidence. His good deeds did not end with the war's conclusion, and he was awarded a Member of the Order of the British Empire title in 1983 for his charitable work with the elderly. He was further recognized by the City of Prague and the nation of Czechoslovakia. 
   Sir Nicholas Winton epitomizes the greatness of the human spirit. He stood against the forces of darkness and helped the powerless during one of history's blackest hours, and then never sought recognition for his extraordinary accomplishments. Six hundred and  sixty-nine children were saved from suffering the horrific fate that befell so many of their friends and family members due to his daring, creativity, and compassion. I am grateful for the opportunity to pay tribute to this extraordinary man, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the distinguished chairwoman of the Ethics Committee, but also our leader on the Special Order hour tonight. 
   What a timely hour that you have allowed us to participate in. I add my appreciation as well to the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus and as well the leaders of the Out of Iraq Caucus and the Progressive Caucus, of which I am a member. 
   And so I raise the question tonight, where do we go from here? And I have standing in alongside of me the growing numbers of those fallen in battle from the 18th Congressional District and surrounding areas. Those faces represent families. They are husbands, wives, sisters and brothers, mothers and fathers. They have left grandmothers and grandfathers. They have left family and friends. And it is interesting, as I look at a headline in the Houston Chronicle, it says: ``America Has No Exit Strategy But Our President Does.'' And the gist of the article is that the exit strategy for President Bush is his retirement. For it is evident from his remarks last week that this administration has no exit strategy other than to say, I will not have the exiting of our troops. I will not cease the loss of lives until I leave the White House. I will not have the legacy of the book being written to say that I worked with the United States Congress, the American people, listened to their voices, understood that this was a political solution and not a military solution, but I will not sit down and reconcile with my Congress, with the American people, and bring our troops home as heroes. No, I am going to stay to the end and leave this to the next President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, may I also thank my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) for gathering on the floor tonight to discuss this important topic. This Congress will not, as the previous Republican Congress did, continue to rubber stamp what we believe to be an ill-conceived war. As we continue to receive reports on the situation in Iraq, it is important that we continue to look forward, to the future of Iraq beyond a U.S. military occupation. 
   Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in administering a democratic election and electing a democratic government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government has demonstrated an inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the American people. 
   Our nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 3770 American soldiers have died. In addition, more than 27,660 have been wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. June, July, and August have marked the bloodiest months yet in the conflict, and U.S. casualties in Iraq are 62 percent higher this year than at this time in 2006. This misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent in American history. In addition, the U.S. is spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second. 
   Mr. Speaker, we are here today because the Congress has listened to the American people, and demanded accountability, oversight, and competence. We saw fit to demand benchmark reports because the American people lost confidence in the Rubber Stamp Republican Congress and the Bush-Cheney team. The American people want a new strategy for success in Iraq. 
   The Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I am proud to be a member, has recently heard a string of reports from military and 
   civilian officials about the political, military, social, and economic situation in Iraq. Two weeks ago, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) informed the Congress that the Iraqi government has met only three of the eighteen legislative, economic, and security benchmarks. Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the Iraqi government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing their country. 
   President Bush rationalized his surge, over opposition by myself and other House Democrats, by arguing it would give the Iraqi government ``the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical areas,'' bringing about reconciliation between warring factions, Sunni and Shia. However, non-partisan assessments, such as last week's GAO report, have illustrated that escalating U.S. military involvement in Iraq is instead hindering that nation's ability to move beyond the devastation of war and death, to build a successful new government, and to create a stable and secure environment. In the seven months since the surge began, increased American military presence has not been able to end the relentless cycles of sectarian violence that continue to plague Iraq. Nor have larger numbers of U.S. troops been successful in unifying and strengthening the Iraqi government. 
   Instead, the security situation continues to deteriorate. Sectarian violence remains high, and even the Bush Administration has noted the unsatisfactory progress toward political reconciliation. The Sunni-led insurgency continues, with insurgents conducting increasingly complex and well-coordinated attacks. The August 2007 National Intelligence Estimate cited ongoing violence, stating, ``the level of overall violence, including attacks on and casualties among civilians, remain high; Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled.'' The report went on to note that al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) ``retains the ability to conduct high-profile attacks,'' and ``Iraqi political leaders remain unable to govern effectively.'' 
   The ever-increasing sectarian violence is causing immense daily challenges for Iraqis. Millions have been displaced, and an Iraqi Red Crescent Organization has reported an increase of nearly 630,000 internally displaced persons from February 2007 to July 2007. The same organization predicts an additional 80,000 to 100,000 persons are displaced each month. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has estimated that 1.8 million Iraqis are now refugees, with an additional 40,000 to 50,000 fleeing to neighboring countries each month. Iraq has become a humanitarian disaster, and one that continues to get worse every day. 
   We are not here today to debate whether there has been some decrease in violence in Baghdad. The United States military is a skilled and highly proficient organization, and where there are large numbers of U.S. troops, it is unsurprising that we see fewer incidents of violence. However, it is our responsibility to take a longer-term view. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to 
   Iraqis themselves. And so far, we have not seen a demonstrated commitment by the Iraqi government. 
   In addition, evidence suggests that not only is increased U.S. military presence in Iraq not making that nation more secure, it may also be threatening our national security by damaging our ability to respond to real threats to our own homeland. The recently released video by Osama bin Laden serves to illustrate that President Bush has not caught this international outlaw, nor brought him to justice. Instead, he has diverted us from the real war on terror to the war of his choice in Iraq. 
   The former chairman and vice chairman of the 9/11 commission, Thomas H. Kean and Lee H. Hamilton, share this view. In a recent op-ed, Kean and Hamilton note that our own actions have contributed to a rise of radicalization and rage in the Muslim world. Kean and Hamilton write that ``no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, treasure, and support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than the war in Iraq. It has become a powerful recruiting and training tool for al-Qaeda.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and political upheaval. I have, for some time now, advocated for Congressional legislation declaring a military victory in Iraq, and recognizing the success of our military. Our brave  troops have completed the task we set for them; it is time now to bring them home. Our next steps should not be a continuing escalation of military involvement, but instead a diplomatic surge. 
   This is why I introduced H.R. 930, the ``Military Success in Iraq and Diplomatic Surge for National and Political Reconciliation in Iraq Act of 2007.'' This legislation would make diplomacy and statecraft tools of the first, rather than the last, resort. We must seek constructive engagement with Iraq, its neighbors, and the rest of the international community, as we work to bring resolution to this calamitous conflict that has already gone on far too long. 
   Democrats in Congress will not continue to rubber stamp the President's ill-conceived war effort. Last November, the American people spoke loudly and clearly, demanding a new direction to U.S. foreign policy, and we here in Congress are committed to seeing that change be brought about. We are working to see the extensive funds currently being spent to sustain the war in Iraq go to important domestic programs and to securing our homeland against real and imminent threats. 
   President Bush and Vice-President CHENEY have been given numerous chances and ample time by the American people and the Congress to straighten out the mess in Iraq. They have failed. It is pure fantasy to imagine that President Bush's military surge has created the necessary safety and security to meet economic, legislative, and security benchmarks. It is time for a new strategy, a new plan that will encourage Iraqis to take charge of their own destiny, seek constructive and sustained regional engagement, and substitute the ill-advised military surge for a thoughtful diplomatic one. It is time to be realistic and pragmatic, to recognize that our troops achieved what they were initially sent in for and that continued U.S. military engagement is not bringing about the desired results.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF MALAYSIA'S INDEPENDENCE -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 518, which recognizes the 50th anniversary of Malaysia's independence. H. Res. 518 acknowledges the Federation of Malaysia's accomplishments over the past 50 years. In addition, H. Res. 518 recognizes the importance to the United States' strong bilateral relationship with Malaysia and endorses this relationship to continue to prosper. It is important for the United States to make this demonstration and endorsement not only because of our relationship with Malaysia but also because we share a similar history of gaining independence and implementing democracy. Therefore, we are proudly participating in the celebration of a government that has liberated its people and provides freedom in the name of democracy. 
   Mr. Speaker, celebrating Malaysia's 50th anniversary is significant because it shows her strength and perseverance towards maintaining freedom. Malaysia shows its determination throughout its history by gaining its independence in 1957, defeating communists soon after gaining independence, surviving through turmoil in 1960s, recession and political repression in the 1980s, and more unrest in the 1990s. 
   Today, Malaysia is a nation of skyscrapers and microchip plants, fast highways and sprawling cities where the government talks of Malaysia's role in biotech, or conference hosting or Islamic finance. It is almost unrecognizable from the independent Federation of Malaya of 31 August 1957, when its first Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra AI Haj stood tall in a specially built stadium in Kuala Lumpur and raised his right arm as the crowd echoed his three cries of ``Merdeka!'' which means freedom. At that time 60% of Malaysians were living below the national poverty line according to Dr. Richard Leete, head of the UN Development Program for Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei. Over the past 50 years that proportion has declined remarkably and currently there are less than 5% of people in poverty in Malaysia. 
   Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 518 also gives us the opportunity to support key American values and interests. By supporting this bill the United States will essentially be supporting a multi-religious and multiracial democracy. In addition, the United States will be supporting the condemnation of racism, religious hatred, and anti-Semitism. Also, the United States will be supporting Malaysia's condemnation of all forms of terrorism and assistance in the War on Terror. Finally, the United States will be supporting the success of our 10th largest trade partner, who we are currently in talks with about a free trade agreement. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 518 and commending Malaysia on the 50th anniversary of its freedom.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING DR. MICHAEL E. DEBAKEY -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to join my colleague, Congressman Al Green, in congratulating Dr. Michael E. DeBakey for having the Congressional Gold Medal that was passed today in the House acknowledge his outstanding leadership. 
   Dr. DeBakey is not only a great American, a great Texan, and a great Houstonian, but he is a great lover of freedom and peace. He does so by evidencing it through his wonderful hands of surgery. 
   Dr. DeBakey was in World War II. He established the MASH unit that is now saving lives of our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. His wisdom has been sought by virtually every U.S. President since Harry S. Truman. He served on Presidential commissions during both the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and thus provided essential support in the passage of the landmark 1965 Medicare legislation.  
   Dr. DeBakey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom with distinction in 1969 and the National Medal of Science from President Ronald Reagan in 1987. I want to thank Dr. DeBakey and my former colleague, Chris Bell, for initiating the legislation that will allow us to award him the Congressional Gold Medal. He is deserving on his birthday of September 7 when he reached almost 100 years old. He is deserving of this great honor. We in Houston love him and admire him. We thank him for the service he has given and all of the lives that he has served. This is a great day when we have passed legislation to honor Dr. Michael E. DeBakey of Houston Texas, the Texas Medical Center, with a Congressional Gold Medal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VIETNAM HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3096, the Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2007, introduced by my distinguished colleague, Mr. Smith. This important legislation provides economic and political incentives for the Vietnamese government to improve its human rights record and ensure freedom and democracy. This bill also encourages the dissemination of information to the people of Vietnam through promoting free media and encouraging educational exchanges with the United States that will allow for a true democracy of truth and knowledge develop. 
   Mr. Speaker, despite a recent history of warfare and an oppressive command economy, Vietnam is now making extraordinary progress. Last year, Vietnam's economy grew by over 8 percent, and it hosted the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit. In January 2007, Vietnam joined the World Trade Organization. 
   This rapid economic progress has improved the lives of millions of Vietnamese. However, I remain concerned about the lack of political openness and reported human rights abuses. In this repressive atmosphere, the government arrests individuals who are peacefully advocating democracy as well as limiting the freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and freedom of information. 
   Vietnam today is at a crossroads, the government must now choose to accept its responsibilities to its citizens or continue upon its trajectory of shunning them, facing increasing international scrutiny. The United States and the Congress must react to the situation in Vietnam with firmness and resolve; we are  unable and unwilling to ignore human rights abuses and political suppression anywhere in the world. 
   By limiting the amount of funds the United States provides to the Vietnamese Government pending a substantial and documented improvement in its human rights record, the United States will show its commitment to the promotion of freedom and democracy throughout the world. This bill will prohibit the provision of additional non-humanitarian funds unless the Vietnamese Government has released political prisoners, made progress on respecting freedom of religion, made progress on returning church properties, allowed the Vietnamese people access to U.S. refugee programs, made progress on protecting ethnic minority rights, and has held accountable any official who is found to have been complicit in the trafficking of humans. 
   The provisions of this legislation work to ensure that the Vietnamese Government halts any and all human rights abuses, while also respecting and ensuring the rights of its citizens. I believe that this legislation provides the necessary administrative outline that will allow the United States to pursue the best possible relationship with Vietnam and cement our position as an advocate of human rights in the realm of international affairs. The bill makes it the policy of the United States to actively promote democracy and freedom through educational exchanges, as well as offering refugee resettlement to all eligible nationals of Vietnam. This bipartisan resolution is a crucial step toward securing the promotion of freedom, democracy, and a respect for universal human rights in Vietnam, the United States and the world as a focal point of United States foreign policy. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today with a heavy heart as I cast my vote against S. 3001, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. While I support our men and women in the armed forces and our need to ensure our national security, I cannot with a clear conscience support a National Defense Authorization bill that includes money for Iraq without time-lines for an exodus. 
   Samuel Adams, who was known as the Father of the American Revolution, stated ``All might be free if they valued freedom, and defended it as they should.'' While most of us value freedom, many of us do not risk our lives for it on a daily basis like our troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   H. CON. RES. 320 
   That is why I chose to celebrate one of our heroic daughters of Texas, Specialist Monica L. Brown of the United States Army with House Concurrent Resolution 320 for her efforts earlier this year. 
   Specialist Brown was the first woman in Afghanistan and only the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver Star, the Nation's third-highest medal for valor. This solider from Lake Jackson, Texas is only 19 years old. 
   On April 25, 2007, Specialist Brown was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the eastern province of Paktia when a bomb struck one of the Humvees. 
   When Specialist Brown saw her fellow soldiers were injured, she grabbed her aid bag and started running toward the burning vehicle as insurgents opened fire. All five wounded soldiers from her platoon scrambled out. Under this commotion, she assessed her patients and moved them to a safer location because they were still receiving incoming fire. 
   The Pentagon's official policy is to prohibit women from serving in front line combat roles in the infantry, armor or artillery, but the nature of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with no real front lines, has seen women soldiers take part in close quarters combat more than previous conflicts. 
   Though I have opposed the war in Iraq from its inception, I remain absolutely committed to ensuring that we recognize, celebrate, and honor the service of our sons and daughters returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do, and I firmly believe that we must commend the men and women of our military for their exemplary performance and success in Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the people of the State of Texas, and all of my colleagues that have been working on the devastation that we experienced in Hurricane Ike, I say thank you to our leadership and chairman of the Appropriations Committee and my colleague, Chairman Obey, and the staff, because disasters always need the benevolence and the friendship of the American people. And I thank you very much for your concern about the people in the Midwest and on the gulf region who have suffered, through no fault of their own. 
   And so this is what our newspaper looks like every day for the last 10 days. The picture is one of a gentleman, 80 years old, Roy Krause in my district, with a tree protruding out of his house. His wife is in the hospital, no lights, no place to go. Galveston and regions around are suffering. And so I am very pleased that we can see the light at the end of the tunnel. 
   This rule is necessary so that we can begin to help people. The $6.5 billion in CDBG money, one-third of it will be out of Washington, into the hands of the State of Texas, in 60 days. We have thousands of people returning as evacuees with no place to live; $400 billion for Economic Development Agency because we have businesses whose lights are still out; $800 million to FEMA that could help our businesses that have suffered business interruption. 
   I met a couple as I was giving out MREs and water and ice. They had just come back from being evacuated. They are on hourly wages. They don't know how they're going to pay their rents. 
   Social services block grants, $600 million. Because of our utility company, CenterPoint, we have hospital and nursing homes today without power and electricity. Those hospitals cannot dry out because they don't have power. And so this grant that we will have will be necessary. 
   The Army Corps of Engineers, we don't have levees. I'm grateful for the levees. We have bayous that overran themselves and flooded people. So we are grateful for this, $200,000 in an earmark that I was able to secure for predisaster work and $1 million for flooding. 
   But the real crux is human needs. We need this money now. And in addition to this legislation, I'm glad that we are taking care of our veterans, many of whom were displaced because of the hurricane, homeless veterans, people who were about to transition to a better life, then got wiped out. 
   Yes, we need moneys for the Red Cross, and I support the $150 million that they need, but I really want this money to get to our people. 
   And finally let me say, some of this devastation comes about because our utility companies were too worried about profits than performance, and so I have 180 schools that are out because of lack of power. I'm glad this bill will provide moneys from FEMA for public buildings to help them rebuild. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. But let me say this to my colleagues, we have got to address the crumbling infrastructure in America. 
   The PUC of Texas ordered our utility company to precut limbs, to rebuild their power lines, to make them metal. They did not do it, and now we have close to 800,000 people without power still, not because we are trying to get more than we expect after a disaster, but it is because we have poor performance. Our trees are down. They are confused. They don't have an organized special needs list. My nursing homes are without power. My hospitals are without power. 
   I'll be writing legislation to correct this immediately and provide penalties for those who cannot provide service.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act. Although this legislation does not include the important legislative and policy language I sought to help my fellow Houstonians and Texans on the road to recovery from the devastation of Hurricane Ike, it does appropriate $22.9 billion in disaster assistance, which will help communities in Texas and across the nation rebuild, rejuvenate their local economies, and take steps to fortify ourselves from future disasters. 
   I have been working diligently and tirelessly to prepare for the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Ike since September 11, and I have been in Houston nearly every day since Hurricane Ike hit landfall to assist my constituents and my fellow Texans respond to and recover from the widespread impact. The government should not abrogate its responsibility over the general welfare of its citizens, and all levels of government (federal, state, and local) must do a better job of coordinating and ensuring that relief is delivered in a timely and efficient manner. I am optimistic that this bipartisan legislation does that by assisting the victims and states affected by Hurricane Ike, especially in Texas, get on the road to recovery. 
   I worked with Chairman Obey and my fellow Texan colleagues to appropriate $7.9 billion in disaster relief funds for FEMA so that this Agency can continue helping communities recover from Hurricane Ike by using these funds for emergency housing, school repairs, debris removal, infrastructure improvements, emergency protective measures, utility repairs, and water facilities. I also worked to provide $6.5 billion in Community Development Block Grants (CDBGs), which are flexible grants that help communities recover from disasters by providing temporary housing, repairing and replacing damaged homes and public infrastructure, and stimulating economic development activities. I also worked to include $600 million in social services block grants to provide  states with flexible sources of funding to address emerging needs ranging from food assistance to urgent healthcare needs. We also have appropriated $1.3 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers to repair damage to infrastructure, especially bayous, drainage channels, and levees to bolster flood control efforts. Furthermore, we have appropriated $799 million for loans and technical assistance by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to businesses and homeowners who have been hit hard and need increased assistance. This legislation also includes assistance for emergency highway relief, levees in New Orleans, wildfires, economic development assistance, international disasters, and international food aid. 
   While Hurricane Ike has left an enormous amount of devastation, it has brought out the amazing unity, strength and resilience that Texans and Americans possess. Whether rich or poor, black or white, young or old, Democrat or Republican, everyone has been working together to rebuild and move forward. This is a great testament to the insurmountable American spirit. 
   More than 60 Americans and over 28 Texans have died as a result of Hurricane Ike. In addition, the hurricane has caused millions of dollars of damage in Houston and Galveston and billions of dollars damage throughout the Nation. After touring the devastation throughout the Houston and Galveston area, it is clear that the funds I helped secure for FEMA and CDBG grants are needed to help residents with recovery efforts in Houston and throughout Texas. 
   As a senior Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, which has oversight over FEMA and DHS, I saw firsthand the waste, fraud, and abuse that occurred in the response 
   and recovery effort to Hurricane Katrina. Furthermore, the almost exclusive use of major, national contractors marginalized and excluded small, minority, and local contractors from participating in the cleanup and rebuilding of New Orleans in particular. This exclusion of small, minority, and local contractors cannot be allowed to occur again in the response and recovery effort in Houston and throughout Texas. I am committed to exercising my oversight over funds appropriated to DHS and FEMA to ensure that they utilize, small, minority, and local businesses that must play an integral role in the recovery and rebuilding of their communities. 
   Furthermore, the response efforts to Hurricane Ike in Texas, unfortunately similar to Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana but to a smaller extent, revealed breakdowns in communication between the state and local government on the one hand and FEMA and the Federal Government on the other hand. These communication failures resulted in unnecessary and avoidable delays in deploying vital resources to individuals and families in need. I look forward to hearing from the panelists on how we can increase the role that FEMA can play in the response and recovery efforts to natural disasters in order to ensure the most expeditious and efficient decision-making process possible. Whether it be through legislation or simply improved preparation and communication, we must take concrete steps to ensure that in the ongoing recovery effort, bureaucratic barriers are eliminated and minimized and that resources are deployed to individuals and families in need efficaciously. 
   Nearly 6 million people nationwide and over 2.5 million Texas residents lost electricity and approximately 1/3 Houstonians still have not regained power. This is unacceptable. CenterPoint, and to a smaller extent Entergy, have demonstrated that their utility infrastructure is lacking and insufficient to deal with a disaster of this magnitude. Clearly, we need to invest substantial funds to improve our electric grids to ensure that the disparate impact on vulnerable populations such as the elderly, disabled, and impoverished, are corrected and are never allowed to reoccur. Furthermore, I am drafting legislation to ensure that utility companies who ignore recommendations to upgrade their power infrastructure and fail to prepare for natural disasters face both civil and criminal liability for their negligent actions. 
   Also, nearly 1 million people evacuated before Hurricane Ike and tens of thousands of Houstonians and Texans are facing a major housing crisis that must be addressed. The City of Houston will need over $2 billion for emergency shelters, temporary housing, removal of debris, emergency protective measures, and repairs for infrastructure, schools, and water facilities. The City of Houston also estimates that it will require over $300 million in CDBG grants for permanent housing to address this housing crisis. I am confident that I will have the strong support of my congressional colleagues in my efforts to ensure that Houston and Texas receives the funds it so desperately needs on the road to recovery. 
   Also, the procedure for reimbursement of uninsured home damage is extremely cumbersome and slow and must be streamlined to assist families on the path to recovery. The current steps which allow for applicants to be rejected by the Small Business Administration (SBA) after they have registered with FEMA and have had their homes inspected and their losses assessed is broken and must be fixed. 
   Although I support the additional support of our troops included in the Defense Appropriations portion of this legislation, I still must reluctantly oppose allowing President Bush to continue a war which the American people also oppose by failing to impose timelines for withdrawal. However this legislation also restores the crucial American priorities shortchanged by the President's proposed budget, this legislation restores vital homeland security programs, life-saving medical research, education for our children, financial aid for secondary studies, energy independence, and services for seniors. 
   Throughout this year, the Democratic-led Congress has worked to restore these critical programs, and this omnibus appropriations bill represents the final rejection of the President's 
   misguided budget cuts. Instead, this legislation provides funding for medical research, health care access, and rural hospitals. It increases funding for K-12 education, student aid, and vocational education. This legislation invests in our Nation's first responders, invests in highway infrastructure, and in a safe future for our children through renewable energy. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is essential that the Congress, as the direct representatives of the American people, approve appropriations legislation that reflects the priorities of the American people. That is what this bill does. It restores funding, supported by a strong, bipartisan majority, for a wide variety of American needs. Even as the President asks for billions more to fund a war that the majority of Americans do not support, he proposes to essentially freeze most domestic funding. 
   In addition, I am pleased to have been able to secure funding for a number of projects benefiting the citizens of the 18th congressional district of Texas such as $1 million for Harris County Flood Control District, $200,000 for City of Houston, and $200,000 for FEMA Pre-Disaster Mitigation. These funds will be crucial to ensure the havoc wreaked by Hurricane Ike is not repeated. 
   Mr. Speaker, while I am pleased with many of the provisions of this legislation, this legislation contains some language which is unacceptable to me, and is unacceptable to the American people. My colleagues and I in the House of Representatives have tried, numerous times, to provide funds for the troops in Iraq specifically linked to a requirement for the immediate commencement of the redeployment of U.S. forces. 
   As lawmakers continue to debate U.S. policy in Iraq, our heroic young men and women continue to willingly sacrifice life and limb on the battlefield. Our troops in Iraq did everything we asked them to do. We sent them overseas to fight an army; they are now caught in the midst of an insurgent civil war and continuing political upheaval. The United States will not and should not permanently prop up the Iraqi government and military. U.S. military involvement in Iraq will come to an end, and, when U.S. forces leave, the responsibility for securing their nation will fall to Iraqis themselves. However, whether or not my colleagues agree that the time has come to withdraw our American forces from Iraq, I believe that all of us in Congress should be of one accord that our troops deserve our sincere thanks and congratulations. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have already lost over 4,100 American lives and $500 billion in taxpayer dollars in Iraq. We have occupied the country for over four years. And our President continues to push a strategy devoid of clear direction and visible targets, while rejecting congressional calls to solidify an exit strategy. 
   In November 2006, the American people clearly stated that they did not want to see an endless conflict in Iraq; they went to the polls and elected a new, Democratic Congress to lead our nation out of Iraq. I am proud to be a member of the Congressional class that listens and adheres to the will of the American people, as we did when both houses of Congress approved Iraq Supplemental bills that instituted a timetable for U.S. withdrawal. We need a new direction, because we owe our brave, fighting men and women so much more. Washington made a mistake in going to war. It is time for politicians to admit that mistake and fix it before any more lives are lost. 
   This Congress will not, as the previous Republican Congress did, continue to rubber stamp what we believe to be an ill-conceived war. As we continue to receive reports on the situation in Iraq, it is important that we continue to look forward, to the future of Iraq beyond a U.S. military occupation. 
   Despite the multitude of mistakes perpetrated by President Bush and former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, our troops have achieved a military success in ousting Saddam Hussein and assisting the Iraqis in administering a democratic election and electing a democratic government. However, only the Iraqi government can secure a lasting peace. Time and time again, the Iraqi government  has demonstrated an inability to deliver on the political benchmarks that they themselves agreed were essential to achieving national reconciliation. Continuing to put the lives of our soldiers and our national treasury in the hands of what by most informed accounts, even by members of the Bush Administration, is an ineffective central Iraqi government is irresponsible and contrary to the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the American people. 
   Our nation has already paid a heavy price in Iraq. Over 4,100 American soldiers have died. In addition, more than 30,600 have been wounded in the Iraq war since it began in March 2003. This misguided, mismanaged, and misrepresented war has claimed too many lives of our brave servicemen; its depth, breadth, and scope are without precedent in American history. In addition, the U.S. is spending an estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 per minute, and $3,816 per second. Ultimately, many estimate that Bush's misadventure in Iraq will cost over $1 trillion. 
   Mr. Speaker, this House previously passed legislation providing our brave soldiers in Iraq with the resources they need, while requiring that the President begin to redeploy our troops. We have worked tirelessly to keep our soldiers and our nation safe. The open-ended war funding provided by this legislation is not the will of the American people, and I am proud to stand here, on their behalf, and oppose this legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISASTER TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the managing member, Mr. Kind of the Ways and Means Committee, for his leadership and the leadership of Chairman Rangel. And as well, let me thank my colleague Congressman Kevin Brady who over the last 10 days we have traveled throughout our respective districts, along with Congressman Lampson and Congressmen Al Green, Gene Green and Ron Paul, and  we've worked together in a bipartisan effort to obviously respond to the devastation and needs of our constituents. 
   People are suffering through the impact of Hurricane Ike. We've been told that there will be billions and billions of dollars of damage, 40,000 to 35,000 people still evacuated, many of them coming back to devastated housing and loss of housing. 
   This is an important initiative. I think one of the most important aspects of it is the ability to increase low-income housing tax credits to States that contain Federal disaster areas. That is particularly important because we've seen the damage to our multiple family housing units. I've also seen the damage that comes about through our regular housing. 
   Mortgage revenue bond financing for individuals suffering home damage as a result of Federal disaster, there's a limit to the annual amount of taxing housing bonds that each State may issue. This bill allows an increase, a very important part of recovery. 
   In addition, a business is allowed a 5-year carryback period for certain losses related to the disaster. Of course, the State of Texas has Federal disaster counties, and we have an enormous impact in our business communities, particularly small businesses in our neighborhoods and in our cities. 
   So this legislation is an important tax relief bill that I believe responds to the crux of the need for recovery, and that's what we want to do in the gulf region. We want to recover. Galveston wants to recover. The southeast part of Harris County wants to recover, and the inner city neighborhoods that I represent such as southeast, such as Acres Home, South Park, Sunny Side, northeast Houston, all of those want to recover. 
   For that reason, I rise to support The Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008, H.R. 7006, and I ask my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (DISASTER TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak on a very important issue to me, House Resolution 7006, the Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008. Right now, over 800,000 people in the greater Houston area are without power; this is not acceptable. We must pass responsible legislation to make it easier for people to get back on their feet after natural disasters ravage their communities. It is time to show the Nation that we learned the lessons of Katrina and Rita and now Ike as well as the other natural disasters we have faced in recent memory. 
   Katrina and Rita taught FEMA quite a lot on how to recover from natural disasters that destroy thousands of people's homes and livelihood. We now have more advanced warning systems in place, a better plan to evacuate those in the storm's path and our first responders are better trained to deal with the medical crisis for those whose best option is to stay. All these things helped save countless lives in my district, but now we face the true test of how a nation responds to a natural disaster. 
   While we have plenty to praise about the response, sadly, we also have plenty to criticize. The utility companies were told to improve their infrastructure so that a disaster like this would not cripple the region; however, more than a week after Hurricane Ike, these utility companies left my constituents to clean up with flashlights and candles. Power still has not been restored to almost a million people, and we face an emerging health crisis because of it. 
   I have taken every opportunity to talk to people facing this crisis and to find out what the Government can do to help them rebuild their shattered lives. A number of stories that I have heard have been inspirational, they want, more than anything, to help their friends, family and neighbors. My staff has received hundreds of calls from people begging to be of any assistance. These brave souls look at the  devastation and refuse to sit by and watch as people they don't know, as well as their loved ones, suffer. 
   This bill will honor those wonderful human beings by helping ease the burden they have willingly placed on themselves to help. They will get a higher reimbursement for the miles they drive in the service of others. The limit that corporations are allowed to write off on their taxes would be waived. This will allow companies to help the communities they support and still remain responsible officers for the employees who work for them. 
   Madam Speaker, this legislation would also help people's way of life remain protected during Federal disasters. Being able to deduct a greater cost for their damaged property help keep homes in the affected areas instead of them not being rebuilt and relocating. Allowing small businesses to write off expenses relating to these disasters assures that the jobs for those who return still exist. Businesses would also be able to focus on healing before they focus on gathering what is owed to them. Moving the carry-back period, the statue of limitations on claiming damages from natural disasters, from 2 years to 5 years would provide financial assistance as well as peace of mind. 
   Since the time of the founding of our country, the Government has been helping out towns and cities affected by disasters. In 1803 a small fire ravaged the town of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and the Congress reacted. This is widely considered the first use of any type of disaster relief. 
   Today, a lot of my constituents are no better off than they were a week ago; this must be remedied. This bill is a great step forward to help communities recover, and we must pass this bill. With that, I am also pleased to be an original cosponsor of this legislation with my Texas colleagues, Congressman Al Green and Congressman Kevin Brady. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak on S. 3023, Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. This bill is so important to our men and women who have served, are currently serving, or will serve one day. 
   As President John F. Kennedy once said, ``As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.'' Every day on this Floor, we praise the efforts of the soldiers who defend our way of life and our safety. If it is not time that we live by President Kennedy's words, and not just pay them lip service, when will it be? 
   Veterans face some of the greatest hardships that any of us can ever imagine. When they return from service, a large number of them can't acclimate back in to their life in an easy manner. This number goes up when you look at the members of the service who have seen action in one of the theatres that we have fought wars in. As of September 24, 2008, we have lost 4,125 men and women. As you all know, death is not the only sacrifice that these brave Americans make. Over 10 times that number of soldiers killed, 10 times that amount have been wounded. When they do return, they expect that the benefits they were promised are there to help them transition. 
   This bill provides a few things that will help the period of transition run smoothly. First off it says that veterans who need disability assistance can get it with ease. As anyone who has ever filled out a government form, they know that they were not designed with simplicity in mind. These forms often take trained professionals and a large amount of time to understand how and where to file this paperwork. 
   The current way to file is just as confusing as how you file other governmental forms. If this bill passes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs would be required to publish regulations relating to how people in need would request disability assistance. This bill would require clear and concise words as well as input from the public on what they think. The best way to prevent confusion is to get interested stakeholders to be brought into the process. 
   Second, this bill will standardize the process's time limits. No time limits on how long a person has to file claims exist today. This means that if the agency decides they want to deny a claim based on time, there is no mechanism to appeal. The 60 day deadline allows disabled veterans who are denied to fight back and get the coverage. 
   Our soldiers, and the patriotism that they inspire in Americans, need to be protected. This bill will help the veterans of the past, and the solders of the future, worry about their safety and not worry about what they will do when  they get home. We need to help these heroes out anyway we can.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me begin by tha nking the chairwoman and her staff and the vice chairman of the committee for working with my office, and of course the ranking member and their staff. 
   It is evident how hard this committee has worked on a very broadband, wide-reaching initiative as it relates to appropriations in the foreign relations, foreign affairs of this Nation. 
   As a member of the authorizing committee, we recognize that this committee touches the heartbeat of every aspect of the world's business, and the importance of the Uni ted States in creating internationalism for the greater good of the world. 
   As I listened to Mr. Payne, my amendment falls squarely in track of improving the health conditions of Africa and recognizing the need for hospitals that in fact will respond to a number of issues. 
   My amendment reallocates an additional $5 million to the Child Survival and Disease Fund to increase the amount of funds appropriated for child and maternal health. 
   The purpose of this amendment is to direct additional fun ds for technical assistance to provide capacity-building for hospitals in Africa that deal with child-surviving and other relevant needs. 
   We have been, if you will, screening the research annals across this Congress to try to find out how many full-service hospitals are on the Continent of Africa. Some have said 200, some say I know that there's one in Sierra Leone. Some say they know there's one in South Africa. But I can assure you that the plight of women who are pregnant in Africa is a severe plight . Take, for example, that every minute somewhere in the world, a woman dies from pregnancy-related causes, with 95 percent of those deaths occurring in Africa and Asia. Worldwide, about 529,000 women die from pregnancy-related causes every year. A woman in sub-Saharan Africa has a 1 in 16 chance of dying in pregnancy or childbirth. Part of the care and prevention of such is preventative care, the money that is in this particular account. But I also believe part of it is the importance of building full-capac ity hospitals that deal with women in the maternal aspect as well as in the pregnancy aspect. And so this amendment seeks to provide that opportunity. 
   And I might cite, as an example, the Mutombo Hospital in Kinshasa, Congo. It is a hospital that has 300 beds, three operating rooms, an outpatient clinic, an emergency room, a pharmacy. You cannot find that, Mr. Chairman, across Africa. Therefore, I believe there is a definitive need to provide them technical assistance so that we don't have to guess what number of hospitals are in and on the continent, but we will know that they look somewhat like this, with operating rooms, with expansive facilities to provide treatment for mothers and babies, treatment that will be lifesaving. 
   Madam Chairwoman, let me simply say that I had an experience in a hospital in Africa. One of my first medical experiences was to require sutures in an accident in Africa. Let me thank those medical professionals who helped me be here today, but I want you to know that I was lay ing out on a wooden slab and looking through tattered curtains and looking at the sky as the doctors were working on me. That was the hospital that I was in on the continent. I do not say it in degradation or insult. What I say is I would venture to say that if we go to Africa today, and many other countries, the kinds of facilities that are there reflect that kind of lack of resources. 
   This will help not only in maternal and child survival because of the loss of life of mothers who are pregnant and who give birth with facilities that would provide hospital resources, but it will also, if you will, give encouragement to the continent, as has been done by the hospital in Kinshasa, Congo, Mutombo, who I hope will also be, as they say, ``in the mix'' on providing opportunities for others to see what can be done. 
   I hope that this amendment will be accepted because it will go a long way for expanding the lives of mothers and children, but it will also go a long way for ensuring that we believe in good hosp ital care, excellent hospital care across the Continent of Africa.  
   Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk and I rise to speak in support of amendment #2 to H.R. 2764, the State and Foreign Operations Act of 2008. I would first like to thank Chairwoman Lowey for her extraordinary leadership and guidance in crafting this bill. 
   H. R. 2764 will play a crucial role in restoring the global respect to this country that many around the world had so eagerly rewarded it in the past for its historical humanitarian efforts. America, that beacon upon the hill, will shine a little bit brighter amongst those who will through this bill, be able to get healthcare, and whose very lives are dependent upon such care. Among these spared lives are many, many children and women who would needlessly perish from the perils of poverty without our support. 
   Mr. Chairman, sparing lives of children and women starts with ensuring that they have adequate healthcare. That is why I offer my amendment which provides: on Page 29, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000). In offering this amendment, my intent is to increase the amount of funds appropriated for child and maternal health by $5,000,000. The reason that I urge support for increased funds for child and maternal health is that the greatest threat for the q uality of life for our children all around the world is lack of health care for the mother and child. 
   In the United States, the birth of a child in most instances is a time of joy because the mother and baby go home from the hospital together, healthy and happy. Sadly, however, in poor countries childbirth can be dangerous and potentially tragic for both mother and child. Take, for example, that every minute, somewhere in the world a woman dies from pregnancy-related causes, with 95 percent of these dea ths occurring in Africa and Asia. Worldwide, about 529,000 women die from pregnancy-related causes every year--about the number of women and girls who live in Dallas, Texas or San Diego, California. A woman in sub-Saharan Africa has a one in 16 chance of dying in pregnancy or childbirth. 
   Mr. Chairman, with less than 200 full-service hospitals, Africa desperately needs our assistance because without it, Africa will continue to fall far short of providing the necessary and proper life saving healthcare for its population. About 3.4 million babies die every year due to poor maternal health and inadequate delivery care. In addition, an estimated 100,000 women a year in poor countries develop obstetric fistulas, a condition caused by obstructed labor and creates permanent holes in their bladders that cause continual leaking of urine.  
   Every year, more than 10 million children under the age of five die from totally preventable deaths. Some are directly caused by illness such as pneumonia, diarrhea, and malaria. Others are caused by indirect causes including conflict and HIV/AIDS. Malnutrition, 
   poor hygiene and lack of access to safe water and adequate sanitation contribute to more than half of these deaths. 
   What is even sadder, Mr. Chairman, is that two thirds of both neonatal and young child deaths--over 6 million deaths every year--are p reventable. Half a million women die in pregnancy each year, most during delivery or in the first few days thereafter. Obstructed labor, hemorrhaging, and infection, can all be averted provided a woman has access to safe and appropriate pre-natal care. Madam Chair, the increased funds from my amendment would be dedicated to providing women with this vital care. Specifically, these funds would contribute to capacity building for hospitals in Africa which engage in child-survival and maternal health programs. We have seen the positive impact that these facilities have made within the health care environment. Professional basketball star Dikembe Mutombo established the Biamba Marie Mutombo Hospital and Research Center, a hospital that provides desperately needed healthcare to the impoverished population in Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo. At full capacity, it will include 300 beds and will offer the following services to the population: pediatrics; gynecology/obstetrics/women's health; internal medicine; surgery (general and subspecialties); emergency medicine; intensive care; outpatient care; laboratory services; and radiology. 
   Existing low-cost, low-technology and high impact interventions such as vaccines, antibiotics, micronutrient supplementation, insecticide-treated bednets, improved breastfeeding practices and adoption of safe hygiene practices can prevent unnecessary maternal and child deaths as well as reduce malnutrition. By packaging services and implementing at scale, high impact and evidence-based maternal, newborn and child survival interventions, we can save millions of lives. 
   As I stand here today, I reflect upon my visit to Honduras in 2001, and I remember how important the child and maternal health crisis was, and now recall how that it was in part the impetus behind my founding of the bi-partisan Congressional Children's Caucus in 1997. As I have done since 1997, I will continue to make it a priority to support initiatives that protect the health and welfare of ch ildren worldwide. 
   Mr. Chairman, the success in reducing infant and maternal mortality and reducing family size and nutrition strongly depends on support from this noble nation. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment that will go a long way to save the lives of many women and children.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I appreciate the accepting of this amendmen t, and I look forward to working with you as we go to conference. Laying the groundwork for the infrastructure of health care on the continent goes a long way in saving lives. 
   I thank you for your leadership and the leadership of the ranking member. I ask my colleagues to support the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. To the chairman of the Foreign Affairs, Foreign Relations Appropriations Committee, let me thank you for your leadership, and to the ranking member as well. 
   Mr. Chairman, I think we know the story of Liberia. And I want to applaud the new President of Liberia, who has visited us, someone who understands economics and is committed to the success of this nation. She cannot, however, do it without friends. 
   Liberia has an enormously important nexus to the United States. It was where slaves were returned back to the Continent of Africa after having been enslaved here in the United States. I look forward to reenergizing the relationship, not only with the continent, but also, particularly wi th the nation of Liberia after a very troubling and very violent time. 
   Our new President of Liberia is tracking all of the needs, accounting for all of the dollars. My amendment simply seeks to reallocate an additional $5 million for the Republic of Liberia of the $365 million Development Assistance account. The net effect would be to increase developmental assistance to the Republic of Liberia to $35 million. Let me explain why this would be a wise investment. 
   We have heard recently from Bob Johnso n, the former chairman of BET, who has taken a special interest, private sector initiative in Liberia. And if I recall his remarks correctly, he believes that Liberia can be on the precipice of a rebirth. It can be on the precipice, if you will, of a renaissance of economic development, educational achievement and infrastructure repair. 
   In 2003, 14 years of civil war left Liberia in shambles. Nearly 200,000 civilians have died. Nearly one-third of the population, or 1 million citizens, have been displac ed. And 300,000 have fled the country. Women are involved on all sides of the war from combat to slavery to rape. Child soldiers were involved in this terrible, horrific tragedy. Physical violence often accompanied the rape. A highly regarded survey of six selected Liberian counties revealed that roughly 7 percent of women have been raped during the war, although female minors were frequently targeted. 
   The war ended, and as I indicated, we now have a woman President. Liberian President, Ellen Johnson Si rleaf, underlines this in her statement to the 2006 International Symposium on Sexual Violence. ``In studies conducted in many of the countries of Liberia in 2004, a large percentage of women and girls reported that they were victims of various forms of violence.'' 
   This reprogramming of dollars will refocus on the need for developmental assistance that will be able to assist those who are making their first steps,  their first steps of achievement, both business-wise, education-wise and building u p the confidence of women, men and families, turning child soldiers into constructive, giving adults, and participating with President Sirleaf's commitment to moving Liberia forward as a shining star on the continent. I know they know how to do it, but we need to give them the extra added tools, and to be able to emphasize in this bill that their development is key. 
   I ask my colleagues to consider where Liberia has been, where Liberia is today, and where they will be 20 years from now. I believe in Pres ident Sirleaf and the commitment of Bob Johnson, the Clinton Foundation, and many others who have targeted the Liberian people and the Liberian Government as an achievable goal of economic developmental, educational, political democracy that can be again the shining star. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this amendment that will provide this extra direction for developmental assistance in Liberia.  
    Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk and I rise to speak in support of this amendment to H.R. 2764, the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act of 2008. But before I do, let me commend Chairwoman LOWEY for her exceptional leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. 
   The legislation she has so ably crafted is an indispensable measure in restoring America's international presti ge and leadership position in the global community. Equally important, this legislation reflects what is good about America: its generosity, its concern for the less fortunate, its commitment to protecting the weak and uplifting the downtrodden, and the recognition that we live in an interdependent world. You will recall the wise counsel of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who said, ``we will either live together as brothers or we will perish as fools.'' 
    Mr. Chairman, my amendment is simple. It si mply seeks to reallocate an additional $5 million for the Republic of Liberia out of the $365 million Development Assistance account. The net effect would be to increase developmental assistance to the Republic of Liberia to $35 million. Let me explain briefly why this would be a wise investment. 
   In 2003, fourteen years of civil war left Liberia in shambles. Nearly 200,000 civilians had died. Nearly a third of the population, or one million citizens, had been displaced, and 300,000 had fled the country. 
   Women were involved on all sides of the war from combat to slavery to rape. Physical violence often accompanied the rape. A highly regarded survey of six selected Liberian counties revealed that roughly 7 percent of women had been raped during the war. Moreover, female minors were frequently targeted. 
   The war ended more than 4 years ago but the plight of Liberia's women is still problematic. Rape and domestic violence continue to plague Liberia. Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf underlines t his in her statement to the 2006 International Symposium on Sexual Violence in Conflict and Beyond: ``In studies conducted in many of the counties of Liberia in 2004, a large percentage of women and girls reported that they were victims of various forms of violence and abuse. International organization reports show that a large percentage of these women were raped.'' 
    Mr. Chairman, traditional Liberian culture stigmatizes rape, so victims often choose to stay silent, hiding what they see as a shameful a nd incriminating experience from their family and townspeople. Until recently, Liberian government courts had no systems in place to assist rape survivors. Traditional culture around rape was one of shame for women and acceptance for men. But times are slowly changing. And it began with the historic election of President Sirleaf, Liberia's first female head of state. 
   Raised in Liberia and Harvard-educated, President Sirleaf began her long involvement with the Liberian government as its 
   Assistant Minister of Finance during the 1970s. She went into exile after a military coup destabilized the country in 1980, but returned to Liberia to run for Senate 5 years later. When she was running for Senate, she was briefly imprisoned for speaking out against Liberia's leader at the time, Samuel Doe. 
   You will remember how she described her capture and close encounter with rape when she addressed a joint session of the Congress on March 15, 2007: ``In 1985, after challenging the military regime's failure to register my political party, I was put in jail with several university students who also challenged the military rule. This House came to our rescue with a resolution threatening to cut off aid to the country unless all political prisoners were released. Months later, I was put in jail again, this time in a cell with 15 me n. All of them were executed a few hours later. Only the intervention of a single soldier spared me from rape.'' 
    Mr. Chairman, I would hope that my amendment would result in additional funding to secure women rights and prevent violence against women. 
   Securing and protecting women's rights is something the Association of Female Liberian Lawyers fights for every day. AFELL, an organization of female lawyers based in Monrovia, is on a mission to educate and represent women nationwide. 
   Founded dur ing the first civil war, 1989-1996, AFELL grew in prominence during the second conflict, which lasted from 1999 to 2003. In November 2000, with fighting still active, AFELL won a state patent to prosecute rape cases. Before this, Liberian law only allowed state lawyers to prosecute criminal cases. The patent represented a major success for AFELL. 
   This was the first in a series of victories. AFELL later collaborated with the government to increase penalties for rape. Resulting legislation led to more p unitive rape laws that call for 10 years to life imprisonment for rape. 
    Mr. Chairman, the Republic of Liberia has made great progress in recent years but still much work remains to be done. Listen again to the words of President Sirleaf: ``In the campaign months, I traveled to every corner of our country. I trudged through mud in high boots, where roads did not exist or had deteriorated past repair. I surveyed ruined hospitals and collapsed clinics. I held meetings by candlelight, because there is no e lectricity anywhere--including the capital--except from private generators. I was forced to drink water from creeks and un-sanitized wells all of which made me vulnerable to the diseases from which so many of our people die daily.'' 
    Mr. Chairman, the women and children of Liberia want what we all want for those we love. They want to learn. They want to be safe from violence. They want to be healthy. They want the same chances that men have. They want to be literate. They want their work recognized. They want the right to inherit property. They want protection against rape. They want clean water that won't sicken and kill their children. They want a hopeful future. 
   I believe my amendment will help hasten the day when these dreams are realized. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you this opportunity to discuss my amendment to H.R. 2764. I ask all members to support it. Again, I thank Chairwoman LOWEY for her fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I believe when we focus the great work that you' ve done on a particular area, it encourages our newly elected woman President of Liberia, which we hope and pray for her ultimate success for her people and for the Continent of Africa. I thank the gentlelady for accepting the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 2764, the State-Foreign Operations Appropriations for FY 2008 and to commend Chairwoman Lowey for her exceptional leadership in shepherding this bill through the legislative process. 
   I strongly support this legislation because it is an indispensable measure in restoring America's international prestige and leadership position in the global community. Equally important, this legislation reflects what is good about America: its generosity, its concern for the less fortunate, its commitment to protecting the weak and uplifting the downtrodden, and the recognition that we live in an  interdependent world. You will recall the wise counsel of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who said, ``we will either live together as brothers or we will perish as fools.'' 
   Mr. Chairman, I support H.R. 2764 because it rests upon a solid foundation supported by four pillars or guiding principles: (1) the United States must respond to humanitarian suffering and health crises; (2) the United States should set an example for the world in providing development assistance because development efforts play a crucial role in increasing global stability; (3) the United States must continue to make addressing global HIV/AIDS a key priority; and (4) the United States must increase its efforts to support its allies in the global war on terror. This legislation accomplishes all of these goals and does so in a fiscally responsible manner. In fact, the $34.2 billion dollars appropriated in H.R. 2764 is substantially less--$700 million less--than the amount requested by the administration. 
   Mr. Chairman, as founder and co-chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus I am constantly reminded of the importance of programs to enhance the health of women and children the world over. In fact, the best way to improve the life chances of poor children living in the poorest countries is to elevate the quality of maternal health of their mothers. 
   In Sub-Saharan African countries, 1 out of every 14 girls entering adolescence will die before the end of her childbearing years. More than 11 million children will die before reaching their fifth birthday from preventable causes like pneumonia, diarrhea, measles, malaria, and malnutrition. That translates to about 30,000 children deaths a day. It is unconscionable to lose these lives when they can be saved with low-cost interventions. 
   Mr. Chairman, during my last visit to the United Nations I was proud to attend the United Nations Special Session on Children, where I pledged my commitment to improving the lives of children over the next decade. H.R. 2764 takes a big step toward fulfilling this commitment. 
   The bill provides $1.9 billion for the Child Survival and Health Programs Fund, intended to reduce infant mortality and to improve the health and nutrition of children, especially in the poorest nations. This is an increase of 25 percent over the administration's short-sighted request. In addition the bill allocates $750 million in grants to organizations that support basic education programs, $300 million for safe water programs, and $501 million for environment and clean energy programs. 
   Mr. Chairman, perhaps nowhere on earth is America's commitment to its fundamental values more on trial than in the crucible of human misery and suffering that is Darfur in Sudan. Since 2003, we have witnessed a systematic campaign of displacement, starvation, rape, mass murder, and terror in the Sudanese region of Darfur. In the years since the conflict began, we have commemorated the 10th anniversary of the 1994 Rwandan genocide and the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, but promises of ``never again'' ring empty as genocide is allowed to continue in Sudan. As violence persists despite peace treaties and African Union peacekeeping efforts, now is the time to follow admirable rhetoric with definitive action to stop the violence in Darfur. 
   The Government of Sudan, through both support of the Janjaweed militia and direct military action, is responsible for systematic assaults against civilians belonging to the Fur, Zaghawa, and Masalit ethnic groups. In the past 4 years, the genocide in Darfur has claimed more than 450,000 lives and has displaced well 
   over 2 million civilians. While some of these have made their way to over-crowded refugee camps in neighboring Chad, most remain trapped within Sudan. These displaced persons are completely dependent on international aid for their survival, the arrival and distribution of which has been impeded by the Sudanese Government. 
   It has been nearly a year since the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1706, authorizing the deployment of 20,000 U.N. peacekeepers to bolster the 7,000-strong African Union force already active in the area. It has now been over a year since I traveled to Chad and walked across the border to Sudan. I had the opportunity to meet with these African Union troops, who pleaded for expanded peacekeeping authority and the resources to protect the refugees from violence. 
   In addition to the ongoing suffering of civilians within Sudan, the violence has now spilled across the borders into both Chad and the Central African Republic, and is undermining any prospects for stability in the entire region. Relations between Chad and Sudan have rapidly deteriorated, and, in addition to the flood of refugees moving across the border, the two nations have become locked in a proxy war. Chadian rebel groups, based in Darfur and supported by the Sudanese Government, have been launching cross-border attacks on civilians in Chad since late 2005. Similarly, fighting between rebels and government troops has displaced over 70,000 people in the northeastern region of the Central African Republic. The situation in these neighboring nations has deteriorated to the point where the United Nations is working towards the deployment of a peacekeeping force to these two countries. 
   In short, the humanitarian crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan also continues. International observers, including the Bush administration, have determined what is taking place in Darfur is genocide. As we demonstrated in Kosovo, once roused to act in the face of evil, America will be resolute and triumphant. That it is why I am so pleased that H.R. 2764 provides $210.5 million for critical humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in Darfur, which is 90 percent above the President's request. 
   The bill also provides an additional $738.8 million, $4 million above the President's request, for Sudan, primarily for development assistance to build the economic base and strengthen democratic institutions in southern Sudan. The bill prohibits any funds for the Sudanese Government unless the Secretary of State certifies that Sudan has ended all support for Arab militias attacking black Muslims in Darfur and unless Sudan allows unimpeded access for humanitarian assistance. 
   Likewise I welcome the $1.3 billion in funding provided in the bill for U.N. peacekeeping missions. These funds will support peacekeeping operations throughout the world. The bill also provides $293 million, which is 31 percent above FY 2007 and 33 percent above the President's request, for targeted peacekeeping operations, missions that are of particular interest to the United States. This total includes an additional $100 million, not requested by the President, to provide critical support to the African Union Peacekeepers in Darfur. 
   Mr. Chairman, when it comes to HIV/AIDS, we are talking about a tragedy of epic proportions, domestically and internationally. In my home State of Texas 3,298 new AIDS cases were reported in 2006, fourth highest in the country. Texas also claims the fourth largest population living with AIDS, nearly 30,000 people or 14.7 per 100,000. Of these new cases in Texas, nearly 42 percent involved African Americans. HIV/AIDS is an issue that affects all of us, according to the U.N., 2.9 million people died of AIDS in 2006; further there are now 39.5 million people living with HIV around the world. 
   The $5.1 billion provided in H.R. 2764 for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care programs, TB and Malaria assistance programs is desperately needed to resolve human suffering. It is also 33 percent above FY 2007 and 13 percent more than the President requested. 
   Mr. Chairman, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia, I know how important it is for the United States to be engaged in the quest for peace in the Middle East. That is why I am pleased that the bill provides $2.4 billion in assistance for Israel, our strong ally, and the only flourishing democracy in that region. 
   Another key ally, Egypt, warrants our continued assistance. H.R. 2764 provides $1.3 billion for military grants and $415 million in economic assistance. However, the bill withholds $200 million of the military grants until the Secretary of State certifies that Egypt is taking steps to address human rights concerns by reforming its judiciary and training its police, as well as addressing concerns about smuggling of weapons from Egypt to Gaza. Since Egypt has proven 
   itself over the years to be a reliable friend and partner in the search for peace, I am confident that the Secretary of State will soon be able to make their required certification. 
   While there will be those who have the view that the war in Afghanistan is over and we should shift our view, the truth is that Afghanistan is as vital to our Nation now as it was shortly after September 11. Operation Enduring Freedom was a success in removing the Taliban leadership and giving the Afghan people new hope; however our work there is far from done. We must ensure that Afghanistan has a bright and productive future ahead of itself, in which peace and prosperity will be possible. The bill provides $1.1 billion in humanitarian, reconstruction and related assistance to Afghanistan--including $235 million in counternarcotics funding and $75 million for programs specifically related to helping women. The measure withholds all but $225 million of the economic support funds until the Secretary of State certifies that the national and local governments in Afghanistan are fully cooperating with U.S.-funded narcotics eradication and interdiction efforts. 
   Although there is legitimate concern about what appears to be the Pakistani Government's disappointing progress in the area of democratic governance and the rule of law, we must remember Pakistan has proven to be a strong ally during both the cold war and the current global war on terror. Pakistan's strategically important location and the firm support of President Musharraf have played a major role in toppling the Taliban regime and preventing it from regaining power in Afghanistan. Pakistan is an important part of our national  security and critical to regional stability. The bill provides $350 million for general economic assistance and $300 million in foreign military financing for Pakistan. 
   Additionally, through various cooperative efforts between the United States and Pakistan, there has been a marked improvement in such fields as economic trade and investment, health care, democracy human rights, education, and science and technology. 
   Colombia is a vital partner and ally of the United States. Recognizing the strategic importance of Colombia as I do, I strongly support the $530.6 million provided for drug interdiction and eradication efforts in Colombia, coupled with economic development assistance for drug-affected communities in Latin America. 
   Finally, Mr. Chairman, let me speak approvingly about the bill's funding of key State Department operations. H.R. 2764 fully funds the President's request of $1.8 billion for ongoing security upgrades to ensure that our embassies remain safe and secure for the tens of thousands of military and civilian staff serving in roughly 260 posts worldwide. Additionally, the bill provides $501 million, which is 11 percent above FY 2007 and 3 percent above the President's request, to fund the participation of over 42,000 individuals in educational, cultural and professional exchange programs worldwide. I know the value of these exchange programs. In fact, last year I attended the 6th Annual Doha Forum in Qatar as an invited panelist at a special symposium focusing on this very subject. 
   To conclude, Mr. Chairman, I strongly support H.R. 2764 because it is an indispensable measure in restoring America's international prestige and leadership position in the global community. I thank Chairwoman LOWEY on her fine work in bringing this exceptional legislation to the House floor where it should receive an overwhelmingly favorable vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (CBC DISCUSSES SCHIP AND THE JENA SIX -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank my dear friend, Ms. Tubbs Jones of Ohio, for organizing this special order on the very importance subject of SCHIP, the State Children's Health Insurance Program. I am particularly pleased that we are having this discussion tonight because I have very serious concerns about the SCHIP legislation that comes before the House tomorrow. My major concern is that the version of the legislation that will come before the House tomorrow is less expansive than the version the House voted on previously. 
   This is extremely important because reauthorization of SCHIP is crucial to closing the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country. Narrowing health care coverage of our children, as this newly agreed upon version does, clearly falls far short of the goal that we had hoped for in our efforts to decrease health disparities. It is crucial that this Congress continue to bring awareness to the many health concerns facing minority communities and to acknowledge that we need to find solutions to address these concerns. My colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and I understand the very difficult challenges facing us in the form of huge health disparities among our community and other minority communities. We will continue to seek solutions to those challenges. 
   Reauthorization of the SCHIP is crucial to realizing those solutions. However, we must not compromise away the health of millions of children who will under this new SCHIP version go without health care coverage. It is imperative for us to improve the prospects for living long and healthy lives and fostering an ethic of wellness in African-American and other minority communities. 
   I thank all of my CBC colleagues who have been toiling in the vineyards for years developing effective public policies and securing the resources needed to eradicate racial and gender disparities in health and wellness. 
   We know that the lack of healthcare contributes greatly to the racial and ethnic health disparities in this country, so we must provide our children with the health insurance coverage to remain healthy. SCHIP, established in 1997 to serve as the healthcare safety net for low-income uninsured children, has decreased the number of uninsured low-income children in the United States by more than one-third. The reduction in the number of uninsured children is even more striking for minority children. 
   In 2006, SCHIP provided insurance to 6.7 million children. Of these, 6.2 million were in families whose income was less than $33,200 a year for a family of three. SCHIP works in conjunction with the Medicaid safety net that serves the lowest income children and ones with disabilities. Together, these programs provide necessary preventative, primary and acute healthcare services to more than 30 million children. Eighty-six percent of these children are in working families that are unable to obtain or afford private health insurance for their Meanwhile, health care through SCHIP is cost effective: it costs a mere $3.34 a day or $100 a month to cover a child under SCHIP, according to the Congressional Budget Office. There are significant benefits of the State Children's Health Insurance Program when looking at specific populations served by this program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HONORING THE LITTLE ROCK NINE -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today enthusiastically and very humbly to honor the Little Rock Nine in the 50th year of the very brave nine young men and women who exemplified courage to stand for what is right in America, and that is equality and justice and the opportunity for all to be educated. 
   Armed with a Federal Court order on September 23, 1957, these children went off to Little Rock High School. Turned back by a protest and viciousness, they then went with Federal troops given to them by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Their names were Minnijean Brown, Elizabeth Eckford, Ernest Green, Thelma Mothershed, Melba Pattillo, Gloria Ray, Terrence Roberts, Jefferson Thomas and Carlotta Walls. 
   I support the legislation. And although it is not the same, we now need Federal intervention for the Jena Six. We need justice for these young people. We need to be able to understand that these children are now being treated as the children were treated some 50 years ago. 
   Justice for Little Rock Nine and justice for Jena Six. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. (HEALTHY COMMUNITIES WATER SUPPLY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I rise in strong support of H.R. 700, the ``Healthy Communities Water Supply Act of 2007'' which authorizes $125 million to enhance water supplies in shortage-plagued areas through the development of such alternative sources as waste water reuse and other water recycling projects. The funding will be used to help finance pilot projects to recycle water for drinking and agricultural use in states like Texas that have long faced chronic supply shortages amid continuing population booms. States would have to pay half the cost of the projects. 
   Mr. Chairman, the new majority in this House understands that ensuring clean water is a top priority for America's working families. A clean and healthy environment begins with clean water. H.R. 700 will help to make the Nation's water supply cleaner and healthier by utilizing alternative water sources such as waste water and recycled water. If we explore alternative water supplies now, we take a giant step toward ensuring that we will have adequate supplies in the future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
